# Carpentry Instructor Trainers Group
Etherpad users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html. This Etherpad will be archived and publicly available.

## Trainer Discussion Meeting
- Thursday, April 06, 2017 UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)
  - San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
- Thursday, April 06, 2017 UTC 22:00 (Erin)
  - Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
- LOCATION: https://bluejeans.com/u/erin.becker/

## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)  x = present
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T07&p1=224
- Maneesha Sane x
- Martin Callaghan x
- Kari L. Jordan x
- Jeff Oliver x

## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T15&p1=224
- Rayna Haris
- Erin Becker
- Sue McClatchy
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Naupaka Zimmerman
- Tim Dennis
- Jonah Duckles
- Greg Wilson
- Tracy Teal


# Agenda 
##  1st meeting
- Martin, Jeff, Maneesha - all new trainers, no specific questions
- Kari - two upcoming in person trainings in South Africa (with Anelda and Aleksandra) and Florida (solo)
- South Africa team is still deciding who leads what module.  Maneesha, Martin, and Jeff all suggested that Kari take on the modules she's least comforatable with for the South Africa training, when she'll have support, in order to be ready to teach on her own in Florida

- Question:
    - Anything additional instructor trainers should be doing before/during/after traning event?
    - Maneesha: make sure participants complete applciation.  Without it we have no way of tracking their progress.  Trainers should email names/emails of people who completed and didn't complete training to checkout@carpentries.org.  All this will soon be in an operations guide.
- Maneesha asked Martin about recent training cohort at Leeds.  One person did not complete, everyone else is working on checkout and will be teaching in the next few months.    

## 2nd meeting

- Sue taught twice recently - once with Erin and Rayna and once with Tracy and Rayna. 
  - First training was online with Rayna and Erin, was her first instructor training event. Was surprisingly easy, used to teaching remotely/online. Made it interactive by talking for ~5 minutes and then doing something with the audience. Was NIH + Great Plains Network/Greater Western Library Alliance. 
  - Then taught in Puerto Rico. Trainees grasp of English wasn't great, but were able to manage. The group was very motivated to improve their own teaching and build a strong data-literate community. Most had been observed teaching, which is not the case with instructors in the States. Had real community focus. Sue will be following up with them for certification. PR training happened at same time as 36-hour replicathon. UPR group was all PIs. Very enthusatic about going on to teach workshops (which isn't always the case with senior faculty). Started with a 45 minute talk about why Data Carpentry & Software Carpentry are awesome, the mission, their goals, and their accomplishments. 
  - Sue and Erin - some conversations about prioritizing training new Trainers who are native Spanish speakers and can help grow the Carpentry community in Spanish speaking countries. Will need to discuss how to diversify our Trainer group as we work on putting together the application process for Juneish.
- Greg - has taught a few one-day events for people working with non-academic groups. Wants to know what other experience folks have had with this type of training experience.
- Advice for teaching in person versus online?
  - in person coffee breaks and meals gives the change to build repor
  - in person its easy to circulate the rooms and be a helper
  - for online be sure to always engourage etherpad answers. participation increases when you explicity write their nename in the etherpad 
  - time keeping is easier in person than online
- Thoughts on Introductions
  - people work together better when you give them a good instroduction exercies, like the one that Tracy uses asking them to say your name, your research in 3 works, something you are proud of making. This will be especially important for online courses
  - for very small workshops with only 15 people, you could go around the room and do introduction so that everyone knows everyone's names
- Q? Is there a guide for how to use the Etherpad.
  - A. recently we've added instructions for each challenge/exercise how to use it with the Etherpad.
- Thoughts on co-teaching. having both instructors present has many benifits. its gives continuity, allows for both instructors to observe each other, gives you a helper, demonstrates that we utilize the teaching practices that we recommend.
- Q? advice for teaching advanced undergrads? use pull request for homework
  - A. great idea. Jenny Bryan and maybe Ethan might do it this way. Its a head ache at first but awesome later on. Its great because it becomes second nature for the students
  - A. giving them an exercise and show them what you expect their pull request to look like
- Brief conversation about virtual machines for teaching including pros and cons.
- **Advice for new trainers:**
  - Some people can see advice regarding teaching as an attach on there style/expertise. However, in these events, people are there because they WANT to be better teachers
  - Teaching with just the notes but not the background expertise is challenging at first. 
  - Your introduction is very important. Be sure to say why you have the experience to teach instructor training, not just as a coder.
  - Enthusiasm goes a long way
  - Have them write learner profiles so that you know what they are thinking about teaching in the future
  - Have them pick a live coding lesson before they go home on day 1
  - Warm them that they will love the video recording by the end of it. 
