# Thursday, July 6, 2017

## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)  
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm

- Maneesha Sane
- Kari L. Jordan
- Lex Nederbragt
- Mateusz Kuzak
- François Michonneau
- Greg Wilson
- Chris Hamm
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Paula Andrea Martinez 

## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY

- Danielle Quinn
- Amy Hodge
- Belinda Weaver
- Jonah Duckles
- Erin Becker
- John Simpson

## Apologies
- Anelda van der Walt 
- Rayna Harris

# Agenda

**REMINDER:**  Please be sure to note your Sep-Dec 2017 availabiltiy if you have not already done so (Martin Callaghan, Karen Cranston, Neal Davis, Tim Dennis, Karin Lagesen, Aleksandra Pawlik, Fiona Tweedie, Alastair Walsh, Jason Williams, Greg Wilson)

## Recent training events:
    
### Macquarie, Austrailia, June 19-20
Trainer: Belinda and Jonah
- Had 18 attendees. 15 from Macquarie and a couple local universities got "tasters". A lot of instructors went straight into teaching at RezBez.
- Unique in that everyone was really motivated because they were teaching two weeks later.
- Rough start with getting everyone to "gel" the first day. At the end of the first day everyone was pretty tightly connected. 
- Not a lot of knowledge about SWC at Macquarie. Attendees (about 30%) didn't know much about how Carpentries works, not previous parts of the community. Had a few people who threw things off. 
- Belinda used a "talking stick" to control vocals during the event.
- Some push-back from some of the attendees during the start of the event. Broke through to them by the end. 
- Comment from organizer that there weren't enough women in the training. Partners often push to put their staff in the first training cohort (because graduate students leave). The staff often skews towards male. 
- "RezBez" is "research bazaar". Event at univerisities for people to find research collaborators and go to workshops to develop research skills. Cross disciplinary. Focuses on building participants research skillset.


### Online, June 26-27 (https://carpentries-work.github.io/2017-06-26-ttt-online/)
Trainers: Rayna, Jeff, Maneesha (Aleks observing)
- How do you manage multiple sites at one online training?
    - Mateusz: difficult. Sometimes people arrive at different times.  Need to have a consistent policy, if people don't show up on time, what do we do? 
    - Greg: have them test AV in advance.
    -  Mark: host should have obligation to test things ~30 minutes in advance
    - Mateusz: Maybe not have Monday workshops so that things don't get messed up over the weekend

- How do you manage different amounts of time a breakout activity takes?
    - Mateusz - combine it with a coffee break - but then it cuts into their break time
    - Greg - give people 5 minute warnings.  Can we record how long exercises actually take?
    - Mark - designated contact at host sites to help manage time
 

### June 19-23 In-person week-long DIBSI-TTT UC Davis 
Trainers: Titus Brown and others. From us: Sue McClatchy, Karen Word, Erin Becker, Lex Nederbragt, with Tracy Teal, Chris Hamm, Amy Hodge https://dib-lab.github.io/2017-06-19-DIBSI-TTT/

- Lex: 
    - Full week meant they could spend more time on various modules.  Also did parts of checkout duting the week.
    - Did lessons in different order.
    - Included bias training from Anna Schneider, Unconscious Bias Project http://unconsciousbiasproject.org/
    - Day long hackathon to work on genomics lessons - reviewing and merging PRs 
    - Talked about workshos in other settings - corporate, undergrad
    - Did teaching demos on site
    - Trainees said they wanted more feedback from us.  Instructors who were not teaching added feedback to their exercises in the etherpad.  Very time consuming but worth it!  How can we include this in our regular trainings?
        - Greg: We put the exercises in a google doc, and gave them feedback a few days later.  Not as effective as immediate feedback but still useful.  May be hard for the actual trainers but good for others to do. Examples:
        - http://pad.software-carpentry.org/DIBSI-TTT-Monday from line 452 (formative assessment MCW exercise)
        - http://pad.software-carpentry.org/DIBSI-TTT-Tuesday from line 54 (Faded examples)
        - http://pad.software-carpentry.org/DIBSI-TTT-Wednesday from line 155 (learning objectives, feedback from Kristin Bass)
        - People didn't do pre-reading so some people only prepared for 5 minutes

- Chris: Talked about Carpentries model in industry, helped with teaching demos
- Mark; Can we partner with a "Center for Teaching Excellence" or similar dept at universities we partner with?  
- Lex: In Oslo pedagogical training is required to teach at university
- Neal: Message from Neal Davis (U. Illinois): I reached out to teaching center (at Illinois) but they felt like they didn't have the bandwidth to concern themselves with it.

- General thoughts:
    - Jonah: Instructor training isn't as exhausting as regular workshops because there's so much group work time. 
    - Erin: Has anyone else done events where one instructor is in person and one is virtual?

### Teaching Git on the command line vs. via GitHub:
    - Slides from Mozilla https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OcoMQgNyWHX9lUkLJ94nMoC6u-9FMbhPaERhJwvz7dc/edit#slide=id.g207b7bba3d_0_147
    - John: Git is the only thing I have ever taught that has made a student cry.
    - SourceTree - GUI that gives you all of the command line features for git. Available for Linux, Unix and Windows. https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/
    - Amy: At Stanford, a lot of people are really excited about learning git. That's why they're signing up for workshops. But even Stanford students are overwhelmed by it. 
    - Danielle: Depends a lot on the audience. 
    
## Upcoming training events

### Open online, July 10-11, https://allegravia.github.io/2017-07-10-ttt-online-open/
Trainers: Allegra, Mateusz


- Switching to zoom platform
    - Everyone will be connecting separately, not as sites
    - Greg: When people pair up will they be in Zoom rooms or making their own connection using some other tool?
    - Mateusz: We will be using Zoom rooms, testing it out this week.
    - Greg: Advice - leave people in the same pairs for the whole training so they can keep connecting to the same people and don't spend time figuring it out over and over again
    - Use google docs - can paste images 
    - Collaborative tool:  https://hackmd.io/
    - Mark: good for simple notetaking, no ability to chat (which is good to get quick questions answered).  Versioning system is not great.  Might not work with lots of distributed people.
    - Greg: Advising against trying something new  



### Online, July 13-14  https://jasonjwilliamsny.github.io/2017-07-13-jaxlab-instructor-training/
Trainers: Anelda, Neil, Jason
- Neil: our available times don't overlap. What can we do to ensure continuity?
- Mateusz: don't digress on other topics.  Be strict on timing.
- Lex: Another communication channel like slack.  Tiny overlaps during breaks, etc
- Mark: Sharing anything about the group dynamics - does someone hog the stage, etc.


### Open online, July 13-14  https://anenadic.github.io/2017-07-13-ttt-online/
Trainers: Aleks, Martin, Stephen

### Univ. of Arizona, July 25-26
Trainers: Jeff and Erin
Details TBD

### QCIF, Brisbane, 27-28 July (partner training event) https://weaverbel.github.io/2017-07-27-qcif/
Trainer: Belinda (and maybe Jonah remotely)