# Trainer Discussion Meeting

## 1st meeting
Thursday, December 07, 2017 UTC 15:00 (Maneesha)
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20171207T15&p1=1440

- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Elizabeth Williams
- Elizabeth Wickes
- Christina Koch
- Tania Allard
- SherAaron Hurt
- Danielle Quinn
- Greg Wilson

### Reports of recent training: 
- Danielle (online training w/ Maneesha)
    - Time management strategy -- set up excel sheet with one row for each 5 minutes and put in which topics should happen when, and what activities
   - Challenge: having a real discussion instead of either putting notes in the etherpad
- Greg: never ask the room for comments, ask specific individuals (checking off as you go makes sure you distribute the load)
Discussion Book: https://www.amazon.com/Discussion-Book-Great-People-Talking/dp/1119049717/
Teach Like a Champion: https://www.amazon.com/Teach-Like-Champion-2-0-Techniques/dp/1118901851/
- Mark / Elizabeth
   - Three instructors, ping-ponging back and forth, worked very well
   - Put all the topics into a Google sheet and assigned topics
   - Different states: person instructing, person on-deck, person on email.  :)
   - Challenge of staying on time
   - Ran into some technology issues (network connection of remote learners)
   - Because people were by themselves, seemed more interested in engaging in discussion, breakout rooms work great!
   - Challenge: How to check in w/ people while in breakouts
- Elizabeth: Karen has been turning off her video feed + stopping into the breakout rooms
- Elizabeth: would be nice to leverage etherpad to know when they are "done"
- Greg: need a new etherpad alternative
- Mark: pre-populate the etherpad with rooms so that they know they should be filling it out

### Discussion of upcoming trainings
- Elizabeth: on-campus at Illinois
Used to printed notes + live coding, having printed notes + not typing may feel weird
- Danielle: Use sticky notes to highlight important points
- Explicitly say that this is a learning process for both trainer + instructors-in-training
- Christina: write on boards, if you have them
- Christina: also, thinking of yourself as a facilitator of discussion vs. conveyer of information

## 2nd meeting
Trainer Discussion Meeting
Thursday, December 07, 2017 UTC 23:00 (Erin) FRIDAY AUS/NZ
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20171207T23&p1=1440

- Amy Hodge
- Anne Axel (Listening in and using the chat only. I'm bedside in the hospital with a parent and won't be able to speak).
Belinda Weaver -- has a couple of upcoming trainings, has done 4 in the past, but none in the last few months
Jess from Namibia, training now to be a trainer


### Reports of recent trainings:
- Tips from Belinda on online training:
make sure everyone gets the right start time in their time zone -- use the timeanddate.com link
- important to stop people zoning out, so she does a lot more time posting of what's upcoming and how long things are going to take
- you have to sound really upbeat online because staring at a screen is not very engaging >> they can secretly be doing their emails
- Greg Wilson often asks people to respond people via chat or etherpad instead of just generally asking for audio feedback so they are always interacting
- when they go to breakout rooms, they feel they don't have enough time, so be generous with that, it gives them time to interact with each other
- they also liked a breakout room over lunch without the instructor as well so they can interact
- she keeps a spreadsheet to make sure people are with new people each time in the breakout groups
- lots and lots of tasks to keep them busy
- Pitfalls with in-person trainings
- terrible room, very cold, video wouldn't play
- she re-enacted the video live and it was kind of fun
- in some cultures being critical is rude, the only way to get a negative is to do one-up, one-down
- When you have a workshop where one instructor Zooms in and it doesn't work well, like one she had recently with Jonah, doesn't get good reviews from people


### Discussion of upcoming trainings:
    
- Observations from Anne and Jess on the trainer training:
    - Anne: Really enjoying the trainer training.  Very good text and discussions. What's the difference between Certified Trainer and Instructor Trainer? Belinda: These are the same thing.
   - Jess: also enjoying it, meeting new people and sharing thoughts.
   - Anne: I enjoy learning about learning and I'm writing my tenure application now and it's been helpful as I revise my teaching statement.
- Belinda provided links to https://github.com/carpentries/commons and https://github.com/carpentries/commons/blob/master/text-for-instructors.md that includes text that people can use for various things. And https://github.com/carpentries/commons/blob/master/text-for-trainers.md

- It can be good to bring in your own wifi to a workshop that has a bad connection, then that can make a good difference.
Jess says it's critical to their workshops to have software on flash drives. They also have sessions ahead of time for help to install the software.

- Some discussion on how to get funding to run a workshop. Anne asked if there is a budget template. In the checklist for workshops there is some info: http://www.datacarpentry.org/checklists/
- Belinda charges a fee for the room and for morning and afternoon tea. People tend to come more if they pay a fee. 

- Talked a bit about changing the workshop to a different timing like 4 mornings in a row, or once a week for 4 weeks. She's done a standard python workshop and then the next week she does just a stand-alone R. When she has a lot of instructors she has 4 or 5 and each teach a half day or so. It's also not too stressful for each new instructor. You can even give people who haven't had the training a chance to teach.
- It's good to make a pact with your co-instructors that you will all give +/- feedback on each other at the end of the workshop. Type up sticky note feedback and send that to everyone and talk about it as well. 

    
