## Trainer Business Meeting
- Thursday, August 03, 2017 UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)
- Thursday, August 03, 2017 UTC 22:00 (Erin) FRIDAY AUS/NZ

Connection information:
- Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/357144246
- To join by phone - look for the phone number for your country at the bottom of this Etherpad. If you don't see a number for your country, please contact ebecker@carpentries.org.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Etherpad users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html

This Etherpad will be archived and publicly available.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________

## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha) 
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
- Fotis Psomopoulos
- Chris Hamm 
- Karin Lagesen
- Maneesha Sane
- Martin Callaghan
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Allegra Via
- Anita Schürch
- Rayna Harris
- Sue McClatchy
- Elizabeth Wickes
- Erin Becker
- Greg Wilson
- Paula Andrea Martinez
- Naupaka Zimmerman
- Juan Steyn
- Mark Laufersweiler (very late)
- Anelda van der Walt

## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
- Kari L. Jordan
- Amy Hodge
- Christina Koch
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Jonah Duckles
- Erin Becker
- Danielle Quinn
- Tracy Teal


## Agenda

### Review Sept-Dec training calendar
**Events calendar:** https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EzhjnWgCsRL4z1lcI_UhQOpg3qrI8kDXYgWSYOOTXnQ/edit#gid=1698063111
- Note tab still says "tentative" as a couple of events are waiting confirmation.  Any specific event that says confimed is confirmed.
- Green = online; Blue = in person somewhere
- For now, green means that that time slot is available for partners to sign up and they will remain available up until a month in advance
- Online is either a) group of 2-3 partners, i.e. 2-3 connections of 6-12 people each OR b) an open instructor training with many different people calling in from all over
- If you are not confirmed for an event it is either because you didn't share your availability or you are outside of the time zones we are focusing on.  Please talk to Maneesha about a scheduled event you can help support - even if it's just for part of the day.

**Trainers in new cohort**
- some have been placed to at an event with an experienced trainer
- if you haven't been placed please talk to Maneesha about supporting or shadowing another event

**Other events**
- If you are organizing an event for a partner site you are affiliated with please be sure to check with Maneesha and Erin before you start planning anything

**Zoom**
- Need training/manual + recorded demo
Can other people claim host rights without permission?
- Erin & Maneesha will look into the bug that occurs when the host is dropped?
- With upcoming distributed workshop using zoon, the video recording will be cut
- Recommend that students use the etherpad chat rather than the zoom chat because the zoon chat is (sometimes) cleared when people leave the room
- Normally people won't have host permissions -- should work exactly the same way as bluejeans
- For special events, rooms will have special host permissions.  


**Trainers Manual**
- See skeleton document here:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1njpPMx_YTL_lZVBb1ZGPs-Np4NjNG4GzK-RxfVt8Zuo/edit
- Add in notes or questions about topic areas you think should be addressed but are not
- Permissions allow comment only, not edit
- This information will be added to the insturctor notes as these topics are currently missing
- An ongoing challenge/thing to do will be to mark up the challenge questions in the episodes to articulate how the challenge should be administered when the workshop is online or in person
- Question: Is there a pre-workshop survey that can be administered and then shared with the instructors? Currently this hasn't been done yet. Maneesha is looking into ways to distill and distribute the information collected in the application to the future instructors. 
- Various suggestions: 
    - Confirm that trainers email participants a few days before.  
    - Making sure there are no "singletons" if everyone else is in small group. 
    - What do people use to communicate w/ the other instructor if teaching online?  gchat, slack?
    - When do trainers close down your camera when teaching online? --> will offer guidance
    - How to provide feedback after the training?  --> for now, take notes as you can, submit issues/PRs as you can
    - could potentially do something like create an issue in the instructor training repo, with a link to your 'brain dump' type notes. But probably wouldn't want everyone in the world to see them. Would probably be best to have those notes, or at least the links to notes private.

**Bug BBQ next week**
- Aug 3-4
- Episode clean up checklist: https://github.com/ErinBecker/instructor-training-reorg/issues/45
- Issues: https://github.com/ErinBecker/instructor-training-reorg/issues
- Blog Post: http://www.datacarpentry.org/blog/instructor-training-bonanza/
