# Carpentry Trainers Group Meeting

# Date: 2017-02-17, 15:00 UTC (7:00 PST)

## Sign In  

Attending    
- Maneesha Sane  
- Erin Becker  
- Allegra Via  
- Jonah Duckles  
- Kari L. Jordan  
- Christina Koch  
- Tim Dennis  
- Neal Davis  
- Greg Wilson  
- Mateusz Kuzak  
- Karen Cranston  
- Jason Williams  
- Tracy Teal  
- Anelda van der Walt  
- Lex Nederbragt  
- Rayna Harris  

Apologies  
- Karin Lagesen  
- Steve Crouch  
- Fiona Tweedie  
- Aleksandra Pawlik  
- Alistair Walsh  
- Belinda Weaver  

## Agenda  
1) Updates to instructor training process - scheduling instructor training events.
Goal is to transition from “on-demand” training for partners to offering a calendar of available dates for partners to select from. Maneesha to develop process for getting availability from Trainers and coordinate schedule. Updates to follow by email.

2) Updates to instructor training process - tracking trainee progress.  
To simplify process of tracking trainees through checkout, Trainers and discussion hosts will email a list of trainee names to checkout@carpentries.org after running demo sessions or discussion sessions and data will be entered into AMY by our virtual assistant. Trainers should feel free to communicate with demo participants by email to let them know they passed their demos and that the certificate will be sent out. Virtual assistant will check off participants at demonstration session and send Erin a list of people who are not recorded as having completed previous steps. Erin will follow-up with them to clarify.

3) Updates to instructor training process - certificate creation.  
Certificate creation has now been automated in AMY. Vote on whose name to list as “awarded by” on certificate (Trainer who led training, Trainer who led demo session or head of instructor training). Majority vote was for certificates to be sent by head of instructor training with one vote for Trainer who led demo session. 

4) Updates to instructor training process - removing checkout duality.  
Currently, trainees wishing to certify as both Data and Software Carpentry instructor need to do two lesson contributions and two teaching demonstrations. Support was unanimous for removing this duality and certifying new instructors as “Carpentry instructors” able to teach for both DC and SWC after completing all three checkout steps once. This change needs to be approved by the DC and SWC steering committees. Tracy will take to DC SC and Christina will take to SWC SC. There was also general agreement that we still need some way of communicating philosophical and teaching style differences between DC and SWC to new instructors. Several suggestions: introductory videos, quiz on differences, or deeper discussion of differences in instructor training.

5) Scheduling upcoming teaching demos.  
Several Trainers haven’t yet led teaching demonstrations. General support for newer Trainers to join demos as observers. Observers will join call with no audio or video and let Trainer leading session know they are coming.

5) Debrief/feedback from recent training events.  
Ran out of time for this. General support to scheduling separate meetings for process-oriented discussions and community/support oriented discussions. Follow-up scheduling to happen by email.

6) Questions for upcoming training events.  
Discussion of how it’s helpful for new Trainers to observe at least one (preferably more than one) training session before teaching. We have the ability for new Trainers to observe online sessions. More broadly, would be good to develop toolkit(s) for Trainers running different types of training events (multi-group online, single group online, in-person). This is on the near-term roadmap.

## Action items:  
- Develop process for getting availability from Trainers and coordinate schedule for training events. Updates to follow by email.  
- Set “awarded by” on new instructor certificates to name of head of instructor training.  
- Proposal for removing checkout duality to be brought to SWC and DC SCs.  
- Trainers who haven’t yet led demo sessions should join one as observer.  
- Schedule separate Trainer discussion and Trainer business meetings at recurring time slots.  


