# Trainer Discussion Meeting
Thursday, May 03, 2018 UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170503T14&p1=1440

## Attending:
- Juliane Schneider @JulianeS
- Christina Koch
- Elizabeth Williams
- Amy Hodge
- Alexander Konovalov
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Maneesha Sane  
- Anelda van der Walt
- Anne Fouilloux
- Jason Williams
- Elizabeth Wickes

Apologies
Kari L. Jordan

Training Debriefs:
Mark and Erin
two different time zones, set Mountain time, and it worked out. 
This was the first time Erin had done online training in a while; noticed that it was very apparent that there is a lot of talking at the beginning at the end, which is more of a challenge online. In-person, it feels like a discussion, but online it is just the trainer talking, which has been noticed often by trainers recently. 
Changed the excersize with the template Carpentries workshop website, tried to make it a live teaching demo, but the differences in the import time made it a challenge. If we are re-doing that template anyway, should we include that in the training anymore? Live coding went well, got good feedback. Overall, good workshop, really engaged learners. Zoom worked great. 

Follow-up:
Jason: agree that there is a lot of talking at the beginning (don't usually teach the end), handle that by admitting that there is a lot of talking, and taking opportunities to ask questions that may not be in the material to pull learners along. Questions, not necessarily about material, but maybe personal experiences to keep learners engaged.

Christina: agree that have gone through and added questions to the intro. Maybe someone could run through the intro and add discussion questions, or a partner activity to break it up. 

Mark: Even though we had the room cam, we still had each learner login, so we still had the brady-bunch. This was very nice, because we could see facial expressions, etc...this goes back to question about size of workshops (with 30 people those individual screens wouldn't be as helpful).
Slides
Anne: Has not yet taught an instructor training, but shadowed a training where the instructor had slides, which are not part of the online material, did Mark use them?
Mark: did not, but has thought about it. Might be good as a pacing tool, but it gets away from the idea of practicing what we teach and minimizing slides. However, maybe we should step back to see that sometimes appropriate, simple slides are a good idea, especially online.
Amy: has taught mostly in-person, and puts up the etherpad. However, have the tendency to not put anything up because it is distracting from the teaching. Personally think that slides should not have words on them. Online, it does feel wierd to not have the anchor of the etherpad. Makes notes for discussion, but wouldn't put them on the screen because it would be disracting.
Christina: creating an issue in the lesson for further conversation!
Elizabeth Wickes & Neal (not here)
this training was an online-hybrid version, running the training again with Neal but in-person. Will try to find discussion points for the morning section, as discussed above. Used Slack to communicate before lesson, which was great. 
Hybrid was with Boise state and an open, so there was a variety of time-zones. At Boise, everyone was logged in individually, along with a room login. For the break-out sessions, it was hard to tell who was where when constructing rooms, so renaming the zoom names to identify people better. 
Had an open participant doing everything on his phone, which did not work out. It's nice to be flexible, but he had a really hard time with it. He kept up through the whole two days. Also, with the time difference, he was driving home from work and you could see him shifting, so he probabably wasn't paying close attention to the training. Also the etherpad did not render well, so he couldn't do any of the etherpad activities. He did not get a whole lot out of it, so maybe we should strongly suggest using a laptop.
Had CoC issue; then had a problem with three different documents with differences on how to handle CoC issues. Was very confusing in the moment; one document's outline indicated that there might not have been a CoC violation, then Neal found another that indicated it was.
Stayed on time, but cut some; the biggest thing was mindset (did very short mindset section). Also skipped GitHub workshop website. 
Boise people were able to hold nice discussions with each other, but was tricky with open. Would like to have smaller group report-outs. During the first day, having them converse would be a good way to break -up us yacking at them. The yacking has to happen, but it would be beneficial to cut it up. In Zoom, we can have it remember the groups, but then if we break people out differently, we have to refigure.
Reflection on slides: would be beneficial morning of first day and end of second day. They should be minimal, but they might help keep people on track (even if it is just the instructors). Would want slides more online than in in-person. 
Overall, went ok! Ended at 4:30-ish.
Follow-up:
christina: like the idea of putting names, location, time-zone in zoom window. 
CoC:
Christina: Handbook is the authoritive version of the CoC (let her know about other versions out there to be modified)
Elizabeth Wickes: Looking through CoC instructions in handbook; a decision flow would be awesome. Difficult to read to make a fast decision while also handling a room. Assuming that someone is familiar with CoC, need a quick reference, would be really really useful. 
Maneesha: are revisiting the CoC, Kari can update us on that. In the handbook, we are also addressing in an issue creating a quick reference for the CoC.
Slides:
Mark: would like to see the slides in the curriculum, but worry about the branding. So the slide-deck should be consistent. Instructors have the ability to shift things (order, skipping, etc...) but like the branding and the consistency.


Great Slide Issue (share your thoughts here!): https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/680

Other Discussion Topics
- Mandatory reporting:  who is required to report harassment incidents at your institution? Do rules like this exist outside the US? Is there a good reference we can link to to educate our instructors about how this works? (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandated_reporter)
- Jason: think this usually only applies to minors and maybe older adults under title 9. Brings up the question of in the CoC does it specify that the CoC is subject to institutional policies wherever the workshop is being held. this would imply that if there is mandatory reporting, then think about that before reporting.
- Elizabeth Wickes: as staff at UoI, am a mandated reporter for all students, not sure if that applies to staff as well. But the trianing is that you stop the student from telling you important/uncomfortable things and tell them to stop talking to me (examples were sexual harassment, stalking, assault). The UoI policy comes first, for Elizabeth, then the CoC after that. Neal and Elizabeth have a meeting to talk about CoC and will report back.

- What content gets skipped? One of the business meetings hit this a bit last week, so we can continue as needed. The curriculum seems to be bursting at the seams in some places, and we’re thinking about ways to release that pressure and let you focus on the most important stuff. Also related: what gets condensed/modified to move more quickly?
Anelda: do people always run the intructor training over two days. We don't, we always extend it. (Yes, the majority/norm is two days)
Maneesha: yes, we want it to be standard when we are bringing people together across zones, in person maybe people extend more
Jason: making the website is very practical, but it's also something you rarely do, so even if we cover it, will you remember 6 mo from then? So that might be better for the instructor discussions, having themes around the practical things. Ex: every first session of the month we have a 15 min practical skills section of website, or CoC, or the people on the call could vote. This might help address some of the burdens of those useful things that are not easy to remember/learn. 
Christina: the mentoring committee has been trying this out. The point about things that need to be reviewed later anyway is a good one; look for those things to just cover briefly.
Maneesha: in response to Anelda (multiple days). If remember correctly, you are also incorporating other check-out steps.
Anelda: only this last time, but also did a longer website and emphasize the culture of The Carpentries a lot.
Mark: Erin was saying that that template is changing, so we should find out where they are already going before we contine to figure out how to solve it. 
Amy: always include the website build, because people have trouble with it. Most people don't get far, but they get an idea and they get the idea that this will need sometime to do. Like that people would have some way to get help with this. Think it should be a whole hour. Include this because there has not been a way for them to get help with this otherwise, but it totally disrupts the flow of the training. Frustrating. If there were a good other way for people to learn, would like to exclude from instructor training. It would need to be a 'just in time' option, for when people have a workshop coming up.
Mark: The website creation is a item that I work with the local instructors as their turn to lead comes up.That is something I choose to do with our new instructors here at OU. 
Elizabeth Wickes: don't burn me! Maybe this is the point where we need to make a video. Feedback is 'why did we do this?'. The time can be used much more valuably (q&a, github intro, etc...). If the directions in the video were stable, it would be there if we need it. If the template were stable, wouldn't need to be re-recorded often. 
Christina: When Lex did code videos, someone volunteered to transcribe them, which is very important for accessibility.

- More on feedback: google form vs. hypothes.is vs. just emailing us some running notes? 
Coordinating Changes/Experiments:
Christina: ideas on how to keep track of changes to try out/make.
Elizabeth Wickes: maybe we have a dumping ground list, then we each pick off one to try at a time (ex: adding discussion to morning time, only thing instructor needs to think about). Like an etherpad.
christina: yes an organized list, then suggest that people try them

Trainer Discussion Meeting
Thursday, May 03, 2018 UTC 22:00 (Karen) FRIDAY AUS/NZ
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170503T22&p1=1440

Attending:
Rayna Harris
Karen Word
Tim Dennis (anyone have the zoom link?) working on it. we are in the same physical room :) - sorry am late
zoom link is at the top


Training debriefs
- Tim taught the new cirriculum right when it was released last year. didn't have pacing issues but did have a lot of broken links

Slide deck or not
- Great Slide Issue (share your thoughts here!): https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/680
- comment: I wouldn't use a slide deck if it existed. I do like to link to figures and diagrams, but this is (easily) accomplished through the web
- comment: for online workshops screen sharing a slide may be more visually pleasing than screen sharing a url
comment: there is a problem of day 1 being to "talky" but this will not be solved by having slides. more activiites are needed

Other Discussion Topics
- Mandatory reporting:  who is required to report harassment incidents at your institution? Do rules like this exist outside the US? Is there a good reference we can link to to educate our instructors about how this works? (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandated_reporter)
- What content gets skipped? One of the business meetings hit this a bit last week, so we can continue as needed. The curriculum seems to be bursting at the seams in some places, and we’re thinking about ways to release that pressure and let you focus on the most important stuff. Also related: what gets condensed/modified to move more quickly?
- More on feedback: google form vs. hypothes.is vs. just emailing us some running notes? 

Timing
New Idea: Let's poll trainers to see about moving the afternoon (Pacific Time) meeting time to a time when more people can come!
current time words for some folks in California, but not for the Carpentires staff

Name of episodes    
- Comment on episode naming: would be nice to have subheaders vs. super long colon-filled naming for episodes
- comment: it is long and cumbersome. it should make it easier to know where you are, but it actually makes harder
- comment: jekyl does have features for tagging and catagoriezing. TODO: ask Francois if he is aware

Incident Reporting
- Rayna and Chris are going to attend a incident report training tomorrow, so we can give and updates


Feedback
- Hypothesis would work well
- there should be a more built in mechanisms for post mortum (in addition to these meetings)
- would you be willing to make time for a zoom debrief with the co-instructors at the end of the day +1+1
- comment: easy for me to make issues and PRs in real time if there are 3 instructors
