# Trainer Discussion Meeting

**Thursday, February 01, 2018**

Attending:

-   Senzo Mpungose
-   Jason Williams
-   SherAaron  Hurt
-   Maneesha Sane
-   Elizabeth Wickes
-   Mark Laufersweiler 
-   Kari L. Jordan 
-   Lex Nederbragt
-   Christina Koch (late)
-   Caroline F. Ajilogba 
-   Belinda Weaver (1st half only)
-   Amy Hodge


## GitHub issues
- Christina & Karen are tagging them as discussion for things that they are looking for feedback on from trainer group. [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/labels/discussion](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/labels/discussion)


## Feedback about proposed hybird (member and open) training events:

- Jason: how will people who are paying for this feel about being mixed with open groups?  Also - Maybe have a 3rd trainer on line who does not do any of the real teaching, but they are there to guide the distributed people, who will be giving them feedback.  May not be needed for both full days but for part of the session. Example - put your faded exercise in the etherpad.  Open participants have another etherpad guided by another person?  Maybe they give their teaching demo to the 3rd trainer.  This 3rd trainer may just be there for an hour or two.

- Mark - learned in training that other educational systems other people come in to observe.  Can we all do this as trainers?  Good way to get feedback, following our own teaching practices.

- Elizabeth - it would be great to have a 3rd person especially during the teaching demos.  Ideally a trainer would be with each small group, but even just having one person float around all the breakout rooms.

- Jason - this would be really good way to to include trainers who can not make a full two day commitment.  Gives them opporunities to teach.

  
## Recent Trainings


### 2017-12-04-ttt-online

- Training at University of Oslo - member site
- 6 slots.  They did internal selection based on applications.  11 applicants, got to 6 accepted
- Only 5 showed up.  When they got there the room was locked.  Mixup in communication with who was supposed to open the room.
- 1 of the 5 thought this was a programming workshop, not teaching workshop.
- Day 2 - only 3 of those showed up.
- **Lessons learned** 
    - small details of logistics are important like getting the room open.
    - Should have met with particiapnts to be sure they understood their expectations.  Would have been better to do this in person since they do have onsite instructors.
    - If they think they were learning coding - remind them that what we're learnign here is useful in other ways.

### 2018-01-30-ttt-USA (Jason & John)
- Had a mix of New England Libraries, Stony Brook University
- Mix of scientists and library/data specialists
- Useful to have template for virtual minute cards.  Was good to have ongoing feedback.  Got 100 responses over course of 2 days.  
-   Positive comments: liked pace, surprised how well virtual format worked, how interactive it was. Good reminder tor trainer not to talk too much.
-   Negative comments: minor things.  Some wanted more breaks so they stuck more ~5 minute breaks throughout day.  
- Many had taken Carpentries workshop but not all.
- Professor for 12 years never had training on teaching & found it very useful!
- They split up so Jason did AM/John did PM, easy handoffs
- **Our feedback from the virtual minute cards are here:** [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16x\_yyg9VY\_6hSvDtqORn6ckeSgkiyGirDn_bwpLZQM8/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16x_yyg9VY_6hSvDtqORn6ckeSgkiyGirDn_bwpLZQM8/edit?usp=sharing) )
- Jason encouraged them to unmute themselves and talk at times - so that they can verbally share their feedback. Makes it more interactive.
- Lex - if you weren't teaching did you follow along?
    - Jason - Day 1 was a bit delayed due to snow.  Intorduced John in morning so they were together for at least some of it.  Sent each other email after their session about what was covered, what was missed.  Could read each other's virtual sticky notes to get feedback as well.

### 2018-01-30-ttt-online-UK (Aleks N & Fotis)
NA
  

## Upcoming Trainings

- 2018-02-05-ttt-online (Karen & Amy)
- 2018-02-13-ttt-online (Sue & Danielle)
- 2018-02-21-ttt-online (Jeff & Christina)
- 2018-02-21-South-Africa-ttt (Anelda & Erin)
- 2018-02-28-ttt-online (Allegra & Lex) - Will be an open training, planning with Karen
- 2018-03-01-ttt-online (Danielle & Greg)
- 2018-03-05-ttt-florida (Kari & François)
- 2018-03-12-ttt-online (Mark & Sue)
- 2018-03-22-ttt-westbigdatahub (Ariel)
- 2018-03-26-ttt-davis (Amy & Karen)
