# Carpentry Instructor Trainers Group

Connection information: Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/357144246

Etherpad users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html

## Permanent links

- Training events calendar Sep - Dec 2017: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EzhjnWgCsRL4z1lcI_UhQOpg3qrI8kDXYgWSYOOTXnQ/edit#gid=1698063111
- Training events calendar Jan - Apr 2018: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1B2JZyu5MeG7rjg8edn4Rp0f8CUeWOVqEtxvXzjMqJHw/edit#gid=0
- Instructor training; Instructor Notes: http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/guide/
____________________________________________________________________________________________

## Trainer Discussion Meeting Thursday, January 04, 2018

### Attending:
1st meeting
- SherAaron Hurt
- Anelda van der Walt
- Kari L. Jordan
- Maneesha Sane
- Yo Yehudi
- Elizabeth Wickes
- Mark Laufersweiler

2nd meeting
- Rayna Harris 
- Elizabeth Williams  
- Christina Koch


### Recent training events
- 2017-11-02-TTT-online (Mark, Elizabeth, and John)
- 2017-11-06-ttt-Utrecht  (Mateusz and Allegra)
- 2017-11-14-ttt-online  (Maneesha and Danielle)
- 2017-11-15-ttt-stanford  (Amy and Karen)
- 2017-12-04-ttt  (Allegra and Fotis)
- 2017-12-05-ttt-southampton (Steve Crouch and Aleksandra N)
- 2017-12-12-ttt-online  (Jeff and Naupaka)
- 2017-12-14-ttt-uiuc (Elizabeth and Neil)

Notes on recent training events
* In person event. Overall went very well. Good energy, interest.
* Had to remind people about 1 hour rule for missing things.  Made special arrangements for a few people.  ~12 people finished.  
* Diverse group from all over campus.  
* Elizabeth added issues in github in realtime.  
* Biggest issue - worksheet at the end included terms that weren't actually covered in the training.  
* Mental models continue to be an issue.  
* Was nice to do it in person rather than distributed online.  
* Learners don't have opportunity to be observed by the trainers.  Would have been nice to have opportunities for direct feedback from trainers.  Emailed Erin to ask if they can do demo sessions in person. Erin said no (demos are supposed to be with someone else).  Considering scheduling informal demos so they can practice in person, build connections locally.  - We should get clarity about what is allowed in this instance and what not. Have heard mixed messages.
* One learner refused to write a MCQ because she didn't believe in them.  Eventually let that go. 
* WHen you print a lesson, the last two pages are always missing.  Why? need to figure this out.
* Sections on clothing - make references to gender issues in clothing.  Male in room scoffed about this being an issue.
* Mark: So many issues need to be recognized, even if it's not a problem for you, it could be a problem for your learners.
* Anelda - did mock demos for a few people after training last year.  Didn't ask anyone to do a real demo afterwards.
* In general when there are people in your class who do not agree with something that we teach in instructor training, sometimes this is a self-selection process (specifically stuff that is integral to the Carpentries philosophy, like live coding)
* Elizabeth:  Wouldn't actually kick someone out.  If they are willing to stick around it probably means they are open to learning/growing.  
* Mark:  If they don't believe in MCQ, push them to ask what other kinds of assessment they'd use. For things like live coding - maybe we should include a biliography that cites why live coding is useful.  If the first time they've been exposed to live coding is in instructor training, there may be some pushback.  
* Elizabeth: Taught different modules this round than she's taught before.  When you watch the good/bad videos - is anyone uncomfortable calling it "bad"?  
    - Kari: Frame it as what are the different kinds of teaching we may see in the classroom?  Doesn't use the word "bad" herself. Talk about how it can be improved. 
    - Mark: start, stop, continue.  What should you start doing? What should you stop doing? What should you continue doing?  Rather could call it common distractors versus better practices.
    - Maneesha: Practice makes progress - perfect isn't our goal, but progress/improvement is
    - Elizabeth will put in an issue about this.
        - see http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/15-live/  (section "The Bad and the Good")
        - see http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/11-practice-teaching/ (Greg's video is called "bad" on youtube page, not in our lessons page)
        - We also call feedback positive/negative which can have similar connotations as good/bad
        - see https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=bad&type=  
* Liked "pingponging" rather than doing the whole AM/PM session.

### Upcoming training events

- 2018-01-30-ttt-USA    (Jason and John)
- 2018-01-30-ttt-online-UK  (Aleksandra N and Fotis)
- 2018-02-05-ttt-online (Amy and Karen)
- 2018-02-13-ttt-online (Sue and Danielle)
- 2018-02-21-ttt-online  (Jeff and Christina)
- 2018-02-21-SouthAfrica-ttt (Anelda, Erin, Senzo, Caroline)
- 2018-02-28-ttt-online  (Lex and Allegra)
- 2018-03-01-ttt-online  (Greg and Danielle)
- 2018-03-12-ttt-online  (Sue and Mark)
- 2018-03-14-ttt-online (Fotis and Lex)
- 2018-03-20-ttt-online (Aleksandra N and Alexander)
- 2018-03-22-ttt-westbigdatahub (Ariel)
- 2018-03-26-ttt-davis  (Karen)
- 2018-04-02-ttt-online  (Kari and TBD)
- 2018-04-24-ttt-online (Erin and Mark)

Notes on upcoming meeting discussions
* Very happy to be getting more funding for workshops and training this year!
* Erin in joining for 10 days, visiting various universities, running 3 day instructor training in a beautiful village by a mountain!
* Participants are all South African nationals, because of government funding
* Working on task force to generally provide support to running workshops across Africa
* Instructor from Sudan currently in South Africa is running a SWC workshop next week.  Got 150 applications within 5 hours!!  Will select 40 people.  
* Anelda had lots of questions about the training curriculum last time.  DIdn't take enough notes so thanks to Elizabeth for taking notes and filing issues!  Erin and new trainers will be running this event.

### General discussions

- Christina: not teaching again until Feb, we need cliffnotes!
    - Rayna: wouldn't be enough!
    - Christina: Yes, big picture and mental model make it easier to dig in.

- Elizabeth: going through trainer training, any advice?
    - Rayna: sit in, watch for most and teach a small part, then half. Teach what your familiar with and one your scared of. 
    - Christina: When you teach anything, its a really supportive atmosphere where most people want to be there. Once it starts its easier to accept that some people will be confused etc...but the material is of a quality that it outweighs trainer mistakes. With enough experience and good intentions you can't screw it up too badly. The second thing, feels super nit-picky, having a more concrete plan. When teaching online have all excercises ready to go, or portions where I want to ask a question figure out exactly what to do (call on ppl, have them discuss). Want to read through the discussion book that greg recommended for greater variety.

- Elizabeth: how different are the ttt as far as students go (not college students).
    - Rayna: Yes they are educated people.

- Christina: Elizabeth how do you find the trainer training?
    - Christina's experience: observation, some reading, then go!
    - Rayna: reading group, some observation, then go: 
    - Reading a chapter a week from "How Learning Works" + then looking at a module from the instructor training that matched
    - Karen sends out discussion questions + hypothes.is is available for comments. Sitting in on trainer discussions/business meetings

- Sidenote: challenge to attend the discussion + business meetings every month But really valuable to have, especially when you're just starting out. 

- Christina: Thanks for describing. Teaching is wierd, you can learn but you also have to do things to figure it out. Knowing in theory and actually doing are different things.
    - Rayna: I want to teach workshops or instructor trainings, like 3 of them. Need to figure out how to do that. Workshops are more likely, because there aren't as many ppl looking for instructor training or ttt.
    - Christina: yeah workshops get ppl exicited about being instructors.
    - Rayna: Gonna figure it out!

- Merge access for github repo https://github.com/carpentries/trainers Belinda is on it!
    
