# Trainer Discussion Meeting, March 1, 2018
# 
## Attending
## 
Thursday, March 01, 2018 UTC 15:00

See this link for your local time:
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170301T15&p1
=1440

* Mark Laufersweiler 
* SherAaron Hurt 
* Amy Hodge
* Elizabeth Wickes
* Anelda van der Walt
* Kari L. Jordan
* Anita Schürch
* Christina Koch

Thursday, March 01, 2018 UTC 23:00 (Erin) FRIDAY AUS/NZ

See this link for your local time:
https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170301T23&p1
=1440

* Caroline F Ajilogba/North-West University, Mafikeng/(Is the time
Thursday , 1 March or Friday, 2 March, can you please confirm?) (Hi
Caroline, this will be 01:00 in the morning in South African time on
Friday morning 2 March)
* Karen Word
* Belinda Weaver

## Training Recaps

### Amy
early February did online training with Karen Word. Hybrid. Group
from Oregon State U and a bunch of individuals from open training. OSU
didn't have their tech act ready. Running half an hour behind to get
started. One microphone. Everyone was logged in on their own laptop with
their mics muted. Was my first online. Breakout rooms were difficult
because wanted to have OSU in their own breakout rooms. Also taught an
in person this week at Stanford. 12 people. 

Erin: Question - do we want to keep the in-person cohorts together
during breakout groups or distribute them across groups so they're
intereacting with open training people? 

Amy: OSU people only had one room so that influenced how we did breakout
rooms. Didn't want to have them in different groups in a single room.
OSU group wasn't heavy on talking and participating. 

Mark: Would prefer that my local group stays as a group during the
breakouts.+ However, would like to see the individual headshots, so
having people log in on their own laptops is good. Helps the instructor
be able to see and identify individual people. 

Elizabeth: Having local people interact locally helps afirm and connect
the local community. Which is good. But theoretically, if you're on a
single campus you're going to have more opportunities to build those
connections. For open call people, could be potential local champions.
The more they can interact with everyone else - like the
cross-pollination. Good to ask the individual cohorts (partner host).
Could have interaction in one of the breakouts. 

Erin to talk to Maneesha about giving the hosts a choice about havnig
their cohort interact with each other more or with the whole group. Need
to find a way to communicate this choice back to the Trainers in each
case. 

### Erin

South Africa last week with Anelda van der Walt, Caroline Ajiloga,
Martin Dreyer, and Senzo Mpungose. Group of about 15 people from
different kinds of institutions and backgrounds and experience.
Fantastic experience. Never taught with that many trainers. Interesting
trying to coordinate but worked out pretty well. Got some of the best
feedback she's ever gotten. (See quote below.) Three day training with
extra sessions on building community and more detail on using lesson
template and web site template. Also did teaching demos and had several
people finished certifying by the end.

Quotes from the training: "Our trainers were excellent. They were
friendly, patient, knowledgeable, excellent communicators. They
explained everything so well and made the material accessible to
everyone in the room. They created a very friendly relaxed atmosphere -
I asked more questions in this workshop than in any other lesson or
workshop I've ever been in. This has given me confidence to teach! Thank
you!!" and "The instructors dealt with a very diverse group of people
with amazing diplomacy and empathy. I learned a lot from that."

### Anelda

All of the Trainers had been part of the Community for quite some time.
Was good to see that our community is in good hands. Erin led instructor
traiing with three other trainers. At the same time we ran an African
Task Force meeting, which I led. We decided not to take people into the
trianing who didn't know the tools we teach - most were
bioinformaticions, computer scientists, etc. Was interesting to see a
more mature bunch of people. More staff than ever before. Usually we
have post-grads (graduate students). Going to run loads of workshops!
Current state of trainers: myself, Juan, Martin, (have both taught in
person once), for last round of training we had four new people going
through Trainer training, 2 in ZA, one in Namibia and one in Ethiopia.
The lady in Namibia wasn't able to join. The fellow from Ethiopia wasn't
able to get a visa. Ethiopia is running a lot of workshops!

### Christina

Trained with Maneesha, Jeff, and Francois. One group. Was pretty smooth
from tech aspect. From people who've taught or are preparing to teach,
are their any concerns or observations about the curriculum. 

### Belinda: CSIRO (Ag & Food) training with Claire Hardgrove

Mental Models - everyone from the same background, seemed to get each
others'. 
Also fluid representations went well - example of "Unix" "Shell" and
"Bash" -- really got that and totally worked from there
Day 2 is SO tiring, you have to read the room and stop when they're
done. Can get back to them with details about checkout. Need to practice
what we preach about not rushing to get through everything.
ISsues: too rushed with organizing. People really wanted a longer time
to mentally prepare, go through the lessons, understand what was needed
etc. Everyone felt that they had come in unprepared. Only decided on
Sunday (day before) who was teaching what. Also only 6 people in the
training. Could have gotten more!
Didn't skip the multiple choice-on-the-fly but did skip learner
profiles. Did do some lesson objectives, recommended that they pursue
learner profiles later for their own purposes.
Think we need 2 week lead on sending introductory emails, not 1 week.
CSIRO is setting up a data science school -- would be good to hear about
at Carpentry Con. 
Section of Carpentries -- outdated info, people wanted to hear about
library carpentry. Will submit PR to update
Mindset quiz needs to go
Serial position effect was difficult to read on the big screen. Might be
better to use the offline version for this situation.
THe overhaul has removed a lot of redundancy. People really liked the
curriculum. THey like meeting each other too.

## Discussions

### Concerns/comments about curriculum as it stands right now:

* Kari - Mental models (just like everyone else).     +1+1
* I always get feedback that people really dislike the mindset quiz
because the questions are so repetitive and obvious. I keep trying to
find some activity that is not a version of this quiz and haven't found
anything yet. The group tends to get distracted complaining about the
quiz. +1, plus it looks like a cheap advert in the end +1 - I personally
hated it and felt cheated
* I struggle the most to teach about fluid represenation.  All the
examples we share are about geography but I'd like to have other
examples to make sense of this. There are other examples in the
curriculum now for biology, math, and a couple other fields I think. 
http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/03-expertise/#
limitations-of-expertise
* Keeping the schedule - time
* Day 2 still feels a bit flat to me. After day 1's excitement, day two
is slower and feels like we're not making best use of time. It's been
like this since the first curriculum I saw
* There are lots of references to coding, but in for example
librarians/social scientists' case these references go over their heads
* Making sure the learners are reading the pre-workshop materials
* lecture versus hands on balance between the two days
* Teaching lesson study session -- can take at least an hour, 1.5 hours
(the first or second?)
* The section on grit is short and vague. I tend to skip since I'm
always running short on time.
* I'd like to consider moving content more related to curriculum
development to a different training for people who are working on
curriculum development. I know this is a much bigger discussion. I think
both learning objectives and challenges are presented twice, once
focused on creating these and once focused on using these. But I think
it's confusing for them to be brought up twice and a little hard in the
time crunch to make this distinction and get it across. And since we
have curriculum materials, it's harder for them to understand why we are
talking about these things int he context of developing curriculum. I'd
keep the "how to use" sections and reconsider the "how to make from
scratch" sections. https://carpentries.github.io/curriculum-development/
:-) !!! (in progress, talk to Francois)
* I tend to skip other content in favor of getting everyone two chances
to practice live coding. +1+1
* I struggle A LOT with the concept map example for the loop that's in
the materials, possibly because it feels jargony to me since this is not
my area of expertise.
* We do not emphasize all the points of the rubric that we use to
"grade" them for the teaching demo or demo all of these. The videos are
helpful, but it's a lot to pay attention to in 3 minutes. I'd love time
to review this during the training so that people feel more confidant
about what is expected of them.

### Mental Models

Anyone who wants to contribute to the discussion about mental models but
isn't able to attend a meeting: Please add comments here!

Sharing how you explain mental models: 
- reinforcing mental models by explaining that the "Teaching Practices"
exercise is writing out their new mental model for pedagogy / teaching
- Mark: we drew concept maps in my training, we've lost a lot of this.
Having them write out a mental map and share this. Can we have them do
this before the workshop? What can we push to the front that they can
prepare and use as starting point for discussions. 
- Elizabeth: Do people have to do a concept map of their MCQ? Greg made
us do a concept map of something that we knew the least of in the
curriculum. Had to use an entire episode (lesson?). For a large thing
that we were uncomfortable with. Makes you empathize with the novice
perspective. Could be unrelated to our materials. 
- Amy: Really good illustration in How Learning Works (p. 50 in chapter
2) of how connections build up in experts vs novices. Draw it up on
board and people really like it. The example I find confusing is at
http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/05-memory/ under
Concept Maps as Instructional Planning Tools. See issue #505
(https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/505)
- Maneesha: Good to have a fun and simple example. Teaching kids about
heat, when they think that a blanket makes things warm. 
- Amy: Would be useful to have some of the operational details early in
day one. 
- Christina: Always a challenge to what you teach on the afternoon of
day two. 
- Anelda: Challenge with people who haven't seen a workshop before.
Decided to do day 3 with a 2 hour shell lesson, teaching the shell as if
this is a carpentry workshop. Gave them a chance to see what it looks
like - both from how teaching works and from what shell materials is.
Used 2 hours for this since we had an extended workshop. People loved
seeing how we did stickies, helpers, pace, etc. Was really useful. 
- Amy: we had some people at the most recent workshop that said they
would have liked us to spend half a day going through a lesson and
having the learners in the room take turns teaching parts of the lesson
for their practice sessions. This would take a lot of time and everyone
might not be able to teach from the same lesson. Maybe an optional
activity afterward for the local instructor community?

- Mental models: a framework, a shelf, concepts that you can attach
things to. They understand framework, they understand that if you don't
have the concept of what something is, other things just swing off into
space. You have to know that a car gets you somewhere, that it has a way
of doing different things. You have things that are stored, then you
have to have the key -- the concept. The foundation for a house.

- Computer science MOOC from MIT explained what programming was. That
was a huge foundation. Really cemented what programming is good at.


