# Trainers' meeting

## Meeting 1
Thursday, December 06, 2018 UTC 14:00

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20181206T14

**Training discussion signup (pre- and post-):**

* Christina Koch
* Amy Hodge

**Other attending:**

* Chris PU Njoku
* Juliane Schneider - Harvard Catalyst - in Chicago, United States
* Nicolas Palopoli - EMBL in Germany
* Eric Jankowski 
* Chris Erdmann - Carpentries/California Digital Library - I'm in a hotel room in Oakland, United States
* Paula Andrea Martinez - Belgium for 2 more weeks, then to Bolivia, and then Australia
* Mark Laufersweiler / OU LIbraries 
* Maneesha Sane/ The Carpentries
* Sher! / The Carpentries

### Training Discussion

Note: Google invite was out of sync with the Etherpad timezone link+1 Can we also fix the link to the etherpad on the google calendar as well. 
+ google calendar updates

Christina: taught in early Nov with Neal. 
* Online training, partially distributed. One site (company). People on site were not all in the same room so basically fully distributed. 
* Really engaged -- even by the end of the second day everyone came back and were really with them. Not super chatty, but were involved. Sometimes especially at the end of Day 2 things drop off, but they kept goin gstrong. 
* Etherpad seized up so switchd to Google Docs. One feature that is great is the ability to COMMENT. This can create a side discussion in the notes. 
* Taught new version of lesson study and Introductions. Went well. Most people know what a good intro is, they just have to get their thoughts down and practice. Preparing to teach seemed to flow smoothly, too far back to remember details. 
* One of the bigger changes was re-ordering day 2, but it is in some ways very engaging, so order doesn't matter that much as long as you get all the material. We taught in old order, and it was fine. Swapping in some of the newer material probably did make it more interactive. New material should have plenty of opportunities for action -- lean on that if you feel like it's slow. 
* Carpentries section gave overview. If we don't have the new trifecta venn diagram we should get it in our curriculum. 
* Group was disheartened by lack of available discussions & loved lego earrings :)

Amy: taught with Chris Hamm at Georgia Tech, but did not teach anyone from Georgia Tech. 
* Taught old curriculum, with a few changes. New introductions changes were used. 
* group Concept map activity worked well. <- Christina: this is a new addition/alternative to worksheet, we want feedback on this
* Lots of faculty. Some skeptics at the back of the room. Tough to engage.
* After lunch snoozers were a problem! Chris counted 6 teetering on sleep... <- Elizabeth: they were working during lunch! They need that unpacking time to answer emails, veg, reflect. Can we keep them from doing this?
* Lots of out-of-towners with other agendas that took time away from training. Had to push back to keep time for workshop. Seemed to have the impression that this was ok. Maybe we could be more careful about setting expectations for events like these. <- Maneesha: history with South Big Data Hub. Ran many workshops in different places, these people came together to become instructors. Their model has been kind of experimental , eg. using Jupyterhub, and sometimes this works and sometimes not. We do need to be clear about what we can accommodate in terms of their private meetings within our events. Mark: DataHubs kind of have a life of their own. These people have often heard about Carpentries but not participated. Haven't been through the learner - helper - instructor pipeline. Institutions throwing faculty members into training don't have buy-in. 
* There were some people who were an hour late the first day. Indicated that the curriculum has suggested that is is 9-5 but they wanted to run 8-4. This says "suggested times" but caused people to show up at 9 instead of 8. <- People are accustomed to having the "syllabus" be binding in academia. Knowing your audience and creating a lead document can help
* Also had to move lunch to fit the 8-4 schedule which made things difficult.

### Announcements

Training Calendar for January - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WtiSLbpF6m4uUi-xIhThwF4wodR6UzwDJbR49aEnTvg/edit#gid=396821285
* Short Q+A: after being in use for over a year, how does this method of signing up work for people?  Accolades / Suggestions / Concerns? 
	* Mark: signed up for Central time because that's home, can we put '+/-1'? Maneesha: Yes, and will create a way to make this clear.
	* Amy: having specific pairs of dates was much easier than having the whole calendar open. It's hard to hold all those dates. Easier to set specific things aside.
	* Elizabeth: haven't replied yet. Trying to figure out what to back off on -- overloaded. Local trainings don't count -- this is frustrating. Taking 2 days out of any given week is really difficult. Prefer to have more impactful local things, like Northwestern, other local regional things. Creates community, easier to justify.

Instructor checkout planning (Kari)
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/73
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/74
	* With regard to the second issue: these may effectively be considered as a revival of Community calls, but with themed reporting from different community groups. They could be larger because of presentation focus, but could still use breakouts feature to keep them interactive & let people meet community members. These could complement discussion sessions, which could be retained for people who really want to d

Blog posts:
* https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/11/trainer-applications/
* https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/12/instructor-training-curriculum-updates/

New maintainer: Rayna is joining Karen and Christina as maintainers of the instructor training curriculum

Would you like to be an informal 'mentor' for a new Trainer? We're looking for experienced Trainers who would like act as a resource to answer questions and occasionally meet with new Trainers to help them feel comfortable in their new role. Trainers onboarded with our previous cohort are also welcome to inquire about being matched with a mentor. https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdLdohyppZwpQ_3zVJuUZr-F0Foxm8zvOYQZ0tMauAnzl1VZA/viewform

Notes
* PAM: Close to 70 applications for instructors, will be splitting into groups by timezones
* JS: Handouts at the end on topics, information about The Carpentries, it is nice
* PAM: Slack channel -trainers post figure on 10 tips for live coding Instructors : https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1fgb8NLCLJTDRF-kaMG0GspjO03bofuf1?usp=sharing
* PAM: Reyna joining Maintainers for instructor training curriculum 
* CK: Not enough background on changes to instructor training checkout
* CK: Looking for mentors for new Trainers
* CK: Maneesha sends out spreadsheet of slots to people where they can sign up to get training, has the system been working for you?
* PAM: Signed up to hold instructor training session, and two were cancelled with short noticed because not enough people, but having so many applications I don't understand why was it still cancelled? Maybe Europe time?

### Topic of the Month - All Things Library Carpentry with special guest Chris Erdmann

* Slides @ https://librarycarpentry.org > Instructor Onboarding
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Tv7LiJAzsn8CkfS-KDjwxDppiBhr6SHmI1HEa2czNrY/edit?usp=sharing
* Recording:https://carpentries.zoom.us/recording/share/3ozNMVe2DManI8B6JB9DnhjO19ku-BHaqAoIxO-vnemwIumekTziMw 

* Library Carpentry is now officially a lesson program!
* Slides are meant to help onboarding and become familiar with Library Carpentry
* Good resource of the history: Library carpentry: software skills training for library professionals
* History goes back to 2013 https://librarycarpentry.org/timeline/
* Chris Erdman joined this year as Community and Development Director
* Data Science and Libraries (IMLS)
* Audience: https://librarycarpentry.org/audience/ (evolved from CarpentryCon18)
* We are looking for Job advertisement/description examples for librarians, to help people outside libraries understand better what we do

## Meeting 2

Thursday, December 06, 2018 UTC 22:00 FRIDAY AUS/NZ

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20181206T22 <- note for US time zones this is now 1 hour earlier due to end of DST!

**Training discussion signup (pre- and post-):**

* Rayna Harris
* Malvika Sharan (hotelroom internet)

**Other attending:**

* Benjamin Schwessinger (will try to make it but may depend what time I get my kid to school as 22:00 UTC is 9 am local.)
* Reed Cartwright
* Murray Cadzow
* Kari L. Jordan

### Training Discussion
Malvika: Quilmes, near Buenos Aires. Just finished Trainer Training, hybrid approach to training in which several Spanish-speaking trainers were brought in virtually.  Rayna, Paula, and Nico. 11 students in the classroom. Struggled with some of the activities -- etherpad made things quiet in the room but they were active on the pad. Worked well to give them a sense of how the community works. Everyone did a great job, Rayna did half on both days, was really good not to teach alone. Was good to see everyone's use of etherpad & learn from that. Students didn't 'complain about bad internet -- supplemented Zoom with WhatsApp to get audio more clearly & worked well! Waiting a couple more days to go back to the post-assessment and look for ways to improve. 2 students quite motivated to help translate the course!

Rayna: Went really well. Have done a few of these so compare/contrast. First time only present for just teaching part -- usually present for full 2 days. But time zone just wasn''t going to happen that way. Had a relatively normal work day which was great -- 4 people teaching took the weight off being a co-instructor. Good etherpad notes helped know what was going on. Loved new format with October push. Putting it together activity was especially good. Loved that everyone was in the room and could be put into breakouts. Downside was not being able to see everyone -- could call them by name, but couldn't' really see them. But didn't have to do Zoom breakouts. Everyone did have a laptop (or tablet or phone... eventually), all were able to participate in Etherpad. 

It's' nice to teach a new episode from tme to time to brush up on skills

### Announcements

Training Calendar for January - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WtiSLbpF6m4uUi-xIhThwF4wodR6UzwDJbR49aEnTvg/edit#gid=396821285
* Short Q+A: after being in use for over a year, how does this method of signing up work for people?  Accolades / Suggestions / Concerns? 
	* It's important that it''s ok to not put specific dates but leave it open to be contacted on short notice when trainers are needed.
	* There are a lot of tabs with a lot of time zones -- if that's easiest to use great? If not is there a better way?
	* Can go in AMY and see when you've taught... but is there a list of upcoming trainings?
	* https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/training_calendar/index.html <- nice but only forward looking. Would be nice to have a retrospective on who has taught what
	* Double check with Maneesha -- ok to include upcoming spreadsheet on etherpad? could keep this link at the top.

Instructor checkout planning (Kari)
* Suggesting a new discussion session schedule: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/74
	* Trainers could host Q&A
	* Community meetings could count, multiple options?

Blog posts:
* https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/11/trainer-applications/
* https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/12/instructor-training-curriculum-updates/

New maintainer: Rayna is joining Karen and Christina as maintainers of the instructor training curriculum

Would you like to be an informal 'mentor' for a new Trainer? We're looking for experienced Trainers who would like act as a resource to answer questions and occasionally meet with new Trainers to help them feel comfortable in their new role. Trainers onboarded with our previous cohort are also welcome to inquire about being matched with a mentor. https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdLdohyppZwpQ_3zVJuUZr-F0Foxm8zvOYQZ0tMauAnzl1VZA/viewform
* Welcome new Trainers!

### Topic of the Month - recap of Library Carpentry presentation this morning
* video: https://carpentries.zoom.us/recording/play/NequHmv4HJaxtQyd-XSqpOBL_l260SJBD8cBT-AcT7teAXeoXSr1sHpN_ImQJCz3?continueMode=true
* slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Tv7LiJAzsn8CkfS-KDjwxDppiBhr6SHmI1HEa2czNrY/edit?usp=sharing

