# Trainer Business Meeting, Thursday April 26

## Attending:

**1st meeting**
- Juliane Schneider
- Aleks Nenadic (first SWC workshop in 2015 with Aleksandra Pawlik, first instructor training July 2017)
- Christina Koch
- Kari L. Jordan
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Tracy Teal (on phone)
- Stephanie Miller (on phone)
- Elizabeth Wickes
- Amy Hodge
- Elizabeth Williams
- Maneesha Sane
- Sher!
- Greg Wilson (first workshop was 7,226 days ago)

**2nd meeting**
- Karen Word
- Rayna Harris


    
## Online instructor training, June 20-21, Central European time. We need a second trainer. 
Even if you are in other time zones and can help with a few hours, please let Maneesha know.
  
Shifting the time of this meeting to 30 minutes or 1 hour later (Amy) (would be open to a shift of +30 min or +1 hour, Wickes)
+OK by Maneesha
+1 Sher!
+1 Mark
Aleks: would make it more difficult for me :-( 
(I am struggling as it is and cannot make all the meetings, but go ahead with what suits most people and I'll do my best to attend)

Trainers - please send attendance list to checkout@carpentries.org after event is over.
See https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/trainers_guide.html#immediately-after-the-event
Quote: "Immediately after the event
Send a list of those who completed the training to checkout@carpentries.org ."




## Instructor Agreement 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UwELPf-mFJQNBuG5xe-jDT2JdRCcGDvKe1tuVcIwWdI/edit (In case comparison is useful, the existing agreement for Trainers is here: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html )

### Notes on Instructor Agreement: 
    
- Tracy: the point is to outline expectations. People are committed to the idea of open and inclusive workshops, but what that actually means is important to articulate (how you should act in a workshop and approach teaching and learning)
- Elizabeth Wickes: 'agreement' has a contractual implication. Everyone knows that everyone does their best to follow the CoC, but also that things happen in the moment and decisions need to be made and this language creates worry about dealing incorrectly/not ideally with those situations. So toning back the language to 'guidelines' might sooth a lot of the comments and worries from community. 
- Christina: Yes, negotiating the balance of 'binding'. It needs to be in a certain sense, because we are expecting these things, but a lot of comments have expressed concern about binding.
- Tracy: the goals of this agreement are exciting, more than the language
- Greg: this should be presented before instructor training; this is what we will expect, are you in?
- Juliane: excited! Coming from LC standpoint. This reinforces that this is not a resume line; it is a committment to a dynamic community that they will need to keep up with. This agreement might also be something to refer back to. 
- Mark: The idea of committment, I like. Could we work in a way to include local community specifically (if they are being trained under a foundation) as well as global. 
- Elizabeth Wickes: Positive comments! Liked that it's a well-organized summary of instructor training. Teaching online without slides and without code, it is easy to get lost, nothing to frame around. A lot of this stuff was already my expectations, as an instructor coming into the community. Particulary like the Carpentry branded piece of the policy. A lot of people want to do their own thing, and that is cool, but then you can't call it a Carpentries workshop, which is clear here. Maybe we should add links as well? Then this could be a reference/ documentation. 
- Elizabeth Williams: the only place where 'endeavor' etc is not used is CoC, maybe that could be more friendly?
Tracy: The code of conduct has a reporting structure that would evaluate those things, and the CoC is really straight forward and about large things that need to be followed, so this is not the place to soften language. 
Elizabeth Wickes: found several different versions of CoC and reporting. Is there one place? 
Tracy: yes, just launched handbook and website, and we are re-directing this week, so there should be one place soon?

Comment from Karin Lagesen here - I cannot attend this round of meetings. I drafted the original instructor agreement, and along the lines as several mention above, it was not meant to be a contract nor a checklist, more something to show that this is what instructors should aspire to do. We will all fail in one aspect or another at some point, but showing people that this is what we would like them to do can help clarify things. I really like Greg's idea of showing it before instructor training.Note, I am not a native english speaker, so there might be words in there with connotations that I'm aware of (like agreement, I had no idea that had legal implications!)

## What did people skip in instructor training?
- ML: section on Carpentries teaching practices.  Just talk about the CoC.  
- did live demos back to back, people seemed to like that
- EW: did creative interpretation of mindset module (skipped grit) -- 20 min, didn't really do any exercises
- GW: pointed out that mindset has new research -- people were happy to have science presented as a work in progress
- EW: had them write a MC question, didn't do 2x2 feedback on challenges
- ML: didn't do faded example
- EW: used mini version of faded example
- ML: purpose of MC / faded example is partially to convey that these things are hard
- EW/ML: used different pieces of the introduction exercises
- EW: skipped setting up a fake workshop, walked through questions that had been entered
- GW: move fake workshop --> online lesson
- GW: like giving feedback on teaching, get 1-2 examples of instructors giving feedback
- ML: live-coding demo of build a workshop website



Instructor agreement: We're thinking separating the thing we need people to agree on -- CoC -- from the things that are really guidelines ("expectations") might be the way to go.


## Code of Conduct

- Christina: there is an issue up about mandatory reporting. Homework assignment: does your institution have mandatory reporting policies?
United States legal mandatory reporting: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandatory_reporting_in_the_United_States#Mandated_professions
- Through The Carpentries we're classified as volunteers, which is not a mandatory reporting category. So, the default is that instructors are not mandatory reporters. Could vary by institution or by person though. (see Mark's comment)
- Mark: should look up what the host responsibilites are. Maybe this should be the host responsibility if there are instructors coming to their institution; to inform on mandatory reporting policy at that institution.

Do you like feeling appreciated? Want to become locally famous for sending out awesome reminder emails?  Trainer Coordinator still wanted! +1

Mark: Could whoever is taking notes put the zoom chat at the end of the notes? (consensus: sounds good!)



do we want to have an anonymous reporting form like these folks have?
code of conduct from OpenCon 2017: https://www.opencon2017.org/code_of_conduct
annonymous form: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdVAOyDdN5dhQDdDj5gI3NMlqQ30KZbl40SQfvn0ny_NeQAgg/viewform



## Zoom chat
Time | Comment
--- | --- 
10:16:35 | From SherAaron Hurt : So tracy can no longer speak without feedback? 
10:17:01 | From iPhone : sorry my headset just switched. back now
10:17:11 | From iPhone : could you hear me before?
10:17:35 | From Kari Jordan : Maybe Instructor Comittment  instead of Agreement?
10:17:46 | From Elizabeth Wickes : +1
10:18:42 | From SherAaron Hurt : Instructor Expectations? 
10:20:30 | From iPhone : Roles and Responsibilites?
10:20:40 | From Mark Laufersweiler : It can lead to some legal issues. Language important where our OU legal would not allow for OU branding to appear on carpentry websites because of the use of the word partner vs member
10:23:04 | From iPhone : hand
10:23:21 | From Juliane Schneider : hand
10:24:27 | From Mark Laufersweiler : Is this for new instructors or is it for trainers? I am becoming a bit confused.
10:24:32 | From Mark Laufersweiler : I thought it was for trainers
10:25:36 | From Mark Laufersweiler : /hand
10:25:46 | From Elizabeth Wickes : /hand
10:27:04 | From room3@carpentries.org  : At the same time, we occasionally have member sites who want to have people in their training event but don't want to go on to teach Carpentries -- they just want to become better teachers in general.
10:29:28 | From Mark Laufersweiler : +1 Maneesha
10:29:53 | From Mark Laufersweiler : They are my local champions and tend to be faculty.
10:31:30 | From iPhone : hand
10:32:09 | From Juliane Schneider : There are always exceptions to everything - if there are people who take the training without meaning to teach Carpentries frequently, we could create a list of ‘things that don’t apply to you” for them?
10:32:46 | From Elizabeth Wickes : hand
10:32:57 | From Mark Laufersweiler : Service to community wether it be to the local or foundation
10:33:04 | From Amy Hodge : +1 mark
10:33:16 | From Juliane Schneider : +1
10:33:54 | From iPhone : hand
10:34:06 | From room3@carpentries.org  : all CoC stuff should be in our handbook, not individual Carpetnries websites.  The link on the SWC site should redirect to the handbook
10:34:08 | From room3@carpentries.org  : We will fix
10:34:12 | From room3@carpentries.org  : that
10:34:36 | From Elizabeth Wickes : The handbook doesn’t have all the info that I’ve found elsewhere and changed some of my actions
10:35:00 | From room3@carpentries.org  : @elizabeth if you see discrepancies or missing info can you raise an issue here
10:35:00 | From Kari Jordan : nothing for me
10:35:08 | From SherAaron Hurt : I'm good
10:35:14 | From room3@carpentries.org  : https://github.com/carpentries/handbook/
10:35:23 | From Kari Jordan : exactly you all said it all!
10:36:01 | From Kari Jordan : link to the issue?
10:36:26 | From Kari Jordan : nevermind i’ll find it
10:37:32 | From room3@carpentries.org  : I have never seen manadatory reporting when it comes to working with adults, only children.
10:37:37 | From Elizabeth Wickes : one concern that brings to mind is that as a mandated reporter my training includes asking people to stop reporting to me so I can let them know
10:37:42 | From Christina Koch : https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/659
10:37:48 | From Elizabeth Wickes : At UIUC I’m a mandated reporter at least for students
10:37:53 | From Mark Laufersweiler : Title 9 at most universities in the states
10:38:53 | From Mark Laufersweiler : Host responsibilities
10:39:26 | From Aleksandra Nenadic : University of Manchester has “University of Manchester policy on Equality and Diversity”: http://documents.manchester.ac.uk/display.aspx?DocID=8361
10:39:46 | From Aleksandra Nenadic : But I am not sure at all how it is enforced or how people are informed what to do
10:40:09 | From Mark Laufersweiler : /hand
10:40:13 | From Elizabeth Wickes : UIUC all has to do an annual tranining on these things
10:40:24 | From gvwilson : +1 - I don’t know how many people at U of T are aware of the rule, and of those, how many actually do it
10:42:24 | From Mark Laufersweiler : /hand
10:42:52 | From room3@carpentries.org  : good idea :)
