# Trainers' meeting

## Meeting 1

Trainer meeting, January 17, 2019 UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190117T14

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

**Others attending** 

* Laura Acion - Buenos Aires, Argentina
* Aleks Nenadic, SSI, Manchester, UK, a.nenadic@manchester.ac.uk
* Juliane Schneider
* Alexander Konovalov
* Sher!
* Anne Fouilloux, Department of Geosciences, University of Oslo, Norway
* Maneesha Sane
* Anelda van der Walt
* Guilherme Castelao
* Mark Laufersweiler
* Chris PO Njoku

**Apologies**

* Kari L. Jordan

### Training Discussion

Africa:
* Somaliland instructor training -- Mateusz & Jessica
* March at UKZN on South Africa's East Coast - new community being built with institutional support.
* Might be able to bring some of the other African trainers in

UK:
* Aleks is running a training next week

New material:
* Erin reported problems with the new memory exercise - doesn't load properly on everyone's computers and takes a bit longer
* Will be relooking this exercise
* Might look at the material and see if it's the same one that was used by Allegra last year in South Africa. She had a great memory exercise. 

### Announcements / Staff Updates

Demo session 1-30 UTC 15:00 -- staff coverage limited due to in-person staff meeting: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190130T15&ah=1
* Sign up here: https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
* Alexander K. - I will take it

Introductions:
* Karen Word - deputy director of instructor training (in Davis, CA)
* Sher! - Detroit, Michigan - Workshop admin, trainer 
* Maneesha - Programme manager Philladelphia, Pennsylvania
* Aleks Nenadic - Software Sustainability Inst - UK - U Manchester - Trainer lead for SSI (UK admin, trainer, instructor)
* Alexander - St Andrews, Scotland - Developer of Maths Software
* Anne - U of Oslo, Norway, Geosciences, instructor, trainer, maintenance of Python lesson
* Laura - Buenos Aires - want to grow Carpentries locally
* Mark - U of Oklahoma - 
* Gui - Oceanographer, California

Maneesha:
* Past reports:
	* Aug 2018: https://carpentries.github.io/assessment/programmatic-assessment/workshops/outputs/programmatic_report_20180803.html
	* Oct 2018: https://carpentries.github.io/assessment/programmatic-assessment/workshops/outputs/programmatic_report_20181031.html
	* Instructor training applications - only Open Applications:
		* link:
		* number of applications from those with previous training or experience in teaching
			* mostly no training in teaching
		* previous involvement in the Carpentries
			* many people with no experience with Carpentries
			* people with Carpentries experience have higher badging rate as instructors
		* domains, programming language, occupation, also available
		* country map:
	* Trainers:
		* Link:
		* in Oct 2018 - 57 on board
		* 2 additional groups still to be added to this number
		* trainers by country - will grow this year with new training cohort
* Questions & Comments:
	* Anne: Do we have info regarding number of people coming from private/public institutions. e.g. Companies
	* Maneesha: We work with companies and government organisations
	* Anne: In Oslo more and more people are coming from companies who want to be involved in the Carpentries. What is the status elsewhere?
	* ML: I would include a break down in university data PhD and non-PhD granting institutions. Least in the states 
	* MS:  I know Jonah had done some breakdown for the US R1/R2/R3 institutions but I don't know if we've done more than that.

Karen:
* Open application workflow
	* for people not at institutions that have membership
	* individuals may apply
	* these individuals are very motivated to be part of the community
	* new workflow will allow more people from op
* Review of applications

### Community reflection

## Meeting 2

Trainer Meeting January 17, 2019 UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190117T22

Did you miss the poll to reconsider this time slot? Still accepting responses for the February meeting:  http://whenisgood.net/trainermeetings2

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

**Others attending**

* Darya Vanichkina (Sydney)
* Ana Costa Conrado (Oslo)
* Amy Hodge (Stanford, US)
* Eric Jankowski (Boise, ID)
* Brian Ballsun-Stanton (Sydney)
* Elizabeth Wickes (Illinois, US)
* Kate Hertweck
* Christina Koch
* SherAaron Hurt

### Training Discussion

Reed: 
* Problems with the memory game
	* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/540#issuecomment-455340719
	* Not all symbols rendered on each OS, lot longer than other versions. Not comparable to 7+-2 rule. Doesn't integrate into chunking. Optional survey with 5 pages of clicking.
	* Recommendation: change back to original activity or try something else.
	* Karen: Anyone have suggestions for a replacement? Can anyone spend time finding a replacement?
* Other than that 6 people, training went well. Virtual locations, breakout rooms worked. 
* Phone challenges: 
	* One trainee had technical difficulties on the first day, hour late. Ended up being on their phone. 
	* Second day, second person was on phone as well.
	* Zoom sometimes disconnect phones when they went to breakout rooms.
	* Solution: don't assign 3 to breakout room, and they would stay in main channel.
	* The people on phone would stay in the main room, preventing phones from needing to reconnect.
	* Karen: Someone add this to the zoom tips in the handbook?
* 6 people is small for a class.
	* Reed: originally 10, but only 6 showed?
	* 1 SA person who was already certified, there for first part of first day

### Announcements / Staff Updates

Demo session 1-30 UTC 15:00 -- staff coverage limited due to in-person staff meeting: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190130T15&ah=1
* Sign up here: https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered

Looking Back
* This morning, Maneesha had retrospective on program assessment data
	* All data is available on github. Also blogposts
	* Github: carpentries/assessment
	* Whenever you need stats, they are available
	* Figures have changed in exciting ways
		* As of October 2018, not counting the last cohort that just certified nor cohort now
		* Running cohort now of 16 people, and cohort in the fall.
		* Maintaining a sense of community in group is problem on horizon
		* Trainers by country have changed quite a bit.
			* A couple of trainers from Brazil and Argentina, Norway, Aus, NZ, Nigeria
		* Applications for instructor training by country figure is interesting
			* Training instructors all over the world
			* Global impact significant
	* Brought in library carpentry
		* Now have cert for instructors in LC
* Open Instructor Training
	* Slides at: ???
	* Program is alternative route to membership training
		* This covers all folk not included in membership at home institutions
		* Can apply for training in Open Instructor Training program
		* Progress is slow, but free.
	* Priority
		* The people who apply are very motivated to be instructors
		* Creates a path for instutitional membership agreement
	* Application process
		* Applications were reviewed and ranked periodicially, and assigned open slots in instructor training to the highest rank in applications
		* Problems:
			* Really long waits
			* Low-ranked applications never accepted/rejected, bad for morale
			* Invitees couldn't attend fell between the cracks
			* Rube goldberg workflow

Looking Ahead
* Reorg of Open instructor training workflow
	* Instructor training events are no longer claimed by members, only seats.
	* Remaining seats in events are for open training, required lots of overhaul
	* No single site trainings, everything is hybrid
	* Plan is still in progress
	* Applications
	* AMY autoscores parts of application (kind of working)
		* Plan to encourage people to reapply for low scoring people
		* Accepting applications in bulk from time to time
		* Will be reinviting people to events
* Changes to admin workflow -- SherAaron Hurt: Updated workflow
	* How we communicate with trainers and participants
		* Will hear from carpentries month out from event, send email connecting instructor and coinstructor, ask to create instructor training website. Will check in somewhat frequently
		* Week out from workshop, instructor traIning, All credentials for zoom, survey links, shadowing trainees. 
		* Trainees will have to shadow instructor training from google sheet
		* Will introduce instructors to shadowees
		* Wil be CC'd on emails to participants
		* Lots of necessary links and homework, introductions
	* Everyone is required to log in individually on zoom
	* Cancellations
		* We want to avoid low-number workshops
		* 2 weeks out, will send email if training is not quorate
		* All email templates are in instructor handbook.
			* Instructor training > For administrators > Email templates

Questions?
* EW: On northwester instructor training, 6/6 attended.
	* Very invested, a few Chicago people
	* Just pinged back last week. Normally run training workshops every semester at UofI
	* invited chicago to may run in case of extra slots
	* Normally overbook 18 registered, 14 show
	* Is offering slots to local partnerships OK?
	* SherAaron Hurt: Yes, instructors can fill slots how they wish
* AH: Former grad student invited to next training
	* Good to hear that instructors have large control over slots
	* Would be good to know who from a given institution apply via open instructor training, because internal emails cannot catch everyone
* EJ: Similiar situation
	* Advisor asked for workshop and training for specific group
	* Need more efficient path for contacts in these situations
	* SherAaron Hurt:
		* Can make part of workflow if people indicate what their affilication is
		* Forms are not always fully filled out
		* One month out, can look for matches if people have info
* Reed:
	* Is there DB of contacts at member orgs?
		* Karen: No, due to privacy ruiles
	* Workflow to contact member contact/trainers there?
		* Karen: email team@carpentries.org and will allocate someone to the question
		* SherAaron Hurt: general email is team@

### Community reflection

Positives
* Ana: How does training impact being a normal (university?) instructor?
	* AH: There is a positive impact, because being immersed in the materials keeps them fresh in the mind. Learn them better every time they're taught. Makes application more natural to teaching of workshops. Every time taught, see a thing to work on. Experience has been great.
	* CK: If you have to teach it to people, you learn it better. Things become clear and importance becomes clear. Learning objectives were fuzzy in the first time around, but answers to "why" have become more clear. Insturction training helps to focus objectives.
	* Karen: The more reiteration on learning and memory, the more clear it is that a lot of instruction is broken and cannot be fixed without totally changing everything.
	* EW: During instructor training, in a class with one of the worst instructors. Wrote 1400 word review. Hard to engage with bad instruction.

Problems worth solving/new directions in 2019?
* AH: Global impact? Offering instructor training in different languages? Especially in Spanish.
* Ana: The map is very empty in Asia. Expanding in Africa, but Asia is empty.
	* Karen: African task force explicitly targeting expansion in Africa, as strategic goal
	* AH: Some discussion that Japanese is really taking off. 
	* Other complications with China
	* Maybe South Korea?
	* EW: Some trainings in South Africa
	* Kari's first training
	* Reed: Instructor training is in English. Lots of native english speakers in Africa. Barrier is easier language-wise for Africans compared to people in China.
	* AH: Interesting to know why that isn't true in India
	* Karen: Worth learning more about history of expansion? Community discussion?
* Reed: In process of trying to sell Carpentries to university
	* Potential pitches
		* "Given an hour with a dean, given a demo of SC pedagogy. 45 min of a specific training. Has anyone done this? Is there a canned demo pitch to higher ups?"
		* CK: This is part of what Jonah does when selling memberships. They likely won't find a teaching demo compelling, but are more interested in seeing people engage
		* EJ: Jonah called in to presentation for deans and VP of research. Slides are available on a site? Inviting leadership to workshops is a great way for people to pop in to see what it looks like. Hard to communicate in limited time with high level folk.
		* AH: Have to communicate bullet points to above. Jonah has good pitch.
		* KW: Fantastic 1 pager available somewhere?
		* RC: Has the 1 pager, but wants more.
	* Concerns from other departments (e.g. CS)
		* AH: To address scared people. Not selling it as replacement of semester long course. Gathered information about courses on campus which offer training in skills, who can take them, how full they are, who they're offered to.
		* Lots of waiting around to get access to courses.
		* Carpentries as stopgap, jumpstart.
		* Helps students to not join a class completely new.
		* EJ: Is there an instutitional discussion about playing nice with computer science?
		* Is there a repository for these discussions?
		* EW: Large, very agressive CS department
		* Play very nicely
		* No one wants to teach the novices
		* Huge overcapacity of students. Not enough seats for their majors, almost. Certainly not minors.
		* Teaches programming at novice/grad level.
		* Spin: get novices ready to take the other stuff.
	* Look at competitor schools. Look at libraries, subject librarians, is there data on help requested?
	* CK: Champions call? 
		* Karen: not sure
	* AH: Have instructor training templates been updated?

https://carpentries.org/files/assessment/TheCarpentries2018AnnualReport.pdf


