# Trainer Meeting

## Meeting 1

July 18 UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190718T14 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Sher and Elizabeth Wickes

**Others attending**

* Christina K.
* Rayna Harris
* Elizabeth WIlliams
* Kari L. Jordan
* Sher!
* Laura Acion
* François Michonneau
* Karin Lagensen

### Discussion Notes

* LLSTC. Non-member instructor training event. Part of a 2 year fellowship (hoping to continue doing this in the future)
* They love our curriculum and how we teach, so they thought it would be very valuable, even if they all intend to become Carpentries
* No one knew anything about the Carpentries, so this was tough, Elizabeth invested time in making it relatable based on her mass of teaching experience

* Karin and Laura and teaching their first workshop in 2 weeks!


### Announcements

* Teaching demo hosts needed! Sign up here  https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-new 
	* Or, schedule your own demo. Instructions are here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NGoMYdoDOiQuXjo2LxFgJaNDXw88838osU-735tn0Vs/edit?usp=sharing . 
* Brief summary of lesson release alterations: 
	* Order of material is mostly the same, some pruning of information, adding transition material. 
	* Updated timing information
	* More specific statement of goals (gaining skills needed to be a Carpentries instructor): https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/01-welcome/index.html


### Topic of the Month: Membership

Membership - with a focus on things that are relevant for trainers

* "Organizations" not "personal" membership program
* Levels: silver, gold, platinum. includes a given number of coordinated workshops and number of trained instructors. Platinum is highly flexible and vague
* By the numbers: 80 members per year with 85% renewal. Very little outreach; most people are contacting us.
* Trainers in membership organizations have been written into platinum agreements. when these trainers teach instructor training workshops, their time is being financially compensated by their employeer. However, there's a challenge when there is only 1 trainer at an institution. We also have a screen and checks in place to make sure all the values of the organization are aligned with The Carpentries (usually everyone has already been actively involved in the Carpentries). 
* What about instructors who aren't active in the Carpentries? Should we continue training people who don't become active and/or don't checkout?

* 85% of members use memberships to run Carpentries workshops
* 73% of members use membership to build capacity to run self-organized workshops
* 55% of members use membership as a way to learn best teaching practices
* 40% of members use membership for professional development
* 83% use membership to build local community
* 74% of people just want to give back to our community!!!
* 49% come from library or research compute center
* 18% are fullilling a mandate from their department or center to teach computational workshops


Top 5 additions to meet goals

* Resources for community building
* Curriculum development training
* Learner support (not something we have focused on much)
* More varied membership models
* CarpentryCon registration fees
* Local trainer
* More instructor support
* Onboarding meeting to better understand the membership program
* Connections with other member organizations
* Options for training that don't require two full consecutive days

Grand plan

* Most people would recommend the carpentires (8-10) but a few are less certain (5-7)
* Chopportunity: a challenge that is the same time an opportunity. A challenging opportunity.
* Equity, inclusion, and accessibility is part of our core values, but has not quite been incoporated into our membership program
* Aligning the values of members with our values will be critical in the future, especially for ogranizations who see the Carpentries "as a service"
* Supporting member organization in community organization/development
* Balancing membership benefits with open access
* Need to explicitly diversify the membership program, aka v2. Also, make it transparent (currently platinum is not transparent)

Comments

* KL. Really great to hear that the model, which was setup 4 years ago, has been successful!
* LA. The fee for membership is too high for a Latin American institution. The fees are as high as someone's salary. 


## Meeting 2

July 18, 2019 UTC 22:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190718T22

**Training discussion (pre and post)**

* Brian Ballsun-Stanton (Post 2019-07-18-ttt-macquarie) and Jonah Duckles

**Others attending**

* Sarah Brown
* Sarah Stevens
* Elizabeth Williams
* Brian Ballsun-Stanton
* Masami
* Serah Rono
* Tracy Teal


### Discussion Notes

Brian Ballsun-Stanton (Post 2019-07-18-ttt-macquarie) and Jonah Duckles
* Great chemistry with instructors and a great class vibe
* The schedule as posted meant that breaks were very late (11:10). Might be better to have it at 90 minutes.
* SB gave more breaks, a 5 min and 10 min so that it was never more than an hour and 10 mins without a break : 
* https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12AYI-pXYP5MjaZ42aYUdhGvL12oYnQCNePwmS713WNo/edit#gid=0
* CK: Maybe communicate with your co-instructors and your learners about your timeing philosophy
* Some discrepancy with "contribution" as to whether or not any contribution is okay versus only lesson contributions
* Related, also worth thinking about "active" or "inactive" lessons that are under developed
* My email template for the week before: https://gist.github.com/Denubis/c0f764afb7731b146a6eca3d6b4a1436
* Other feedback: It'd be great to have a page inside docs.carpentries.org which has the checkout checklist. I keep looking in the wrong place for the list which seems like it resides in the instructor training repo
* I'm also really glad I made my etherhub template exporter https://denubis.github.io/instructor-training/etherpad/index.html (which is also in a PR)

Brian Ballsun-Stanton  &  Masami's workshop in May
* Noticed that there was too much "homework" information to give at the end of the day. 
* Solutions for this are to include the information in the pre-workshop email and or earlier in the day. 


Template emails:
* What is the standard?
* Where should we keep catalogs? Maybe add links to the handbooks
    
Demos: can we checkout people who were in our training?   
* Goal is to preserve the integrety of the checkout process. 

### Announcements

* Teaching demo hosts needed! Sign up here https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered (<-new??) or schedule your own. Instructions are here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NGoMYdoDOiQuXjo2LxFgJaNDXw88838osU-735tn0Vs/edit?usp=sharing . 
* Brief summary of lesson release alterations: 
	* Order of material is mostly the same, some pruning of information, adding transition material. 
	* Updated timing information
	* More specific statement of goals (gaining skills needed to be a Carpentries instructor): https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/01-welcome/index.html
