# Trainer Meeting

## Meeting 1

Trainer meeting, Aug 15  UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190815T14 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

- Laura Acion and Karin Lagesen (post)
- Sarah Stevens & Maneesha Sane (post)       

**Others attending**

- Anelda van der Walt 
- Eric Jankowski
- Kari L. Jordan
- Karen Word
- Christina Koch
- Danielle Quinn
- Rayna Harris
- David Pérez-Suárez
- Toby Hodges
- Karin Lagesen

### Discussion - Training reports!

#### Laura Acion & Karin Lagensen

- Laura: First instructor workshop ever! Nice! Good. enjoyed it. Intense. Enjoyed more afterwards, really felt good afterwards- wants to do it again in spanish and in person!
- Was EST US w/ Karin Lagesen from Norway - very experienced
- Laura feels like she's good cop, Karin set firm expectations early and throughout- was good
- Feedback was great
- Full room - 24 (25, w/ one noshow) 
- Group from 5/6 from Jackson lab, didn't understand needed own screens
- Logistics tricky for breakout rooms - Probably the least smooth thing throughout. What do with uneven number of people in person?
- Didn't get to practice the breakout rooms for real before it was real- was messy. Practice helped. 
- Drained after 2 days teaching it (5x more than when taking it!)
- But the materials are awesome and the learners love them
- Felt like had to improvise because felt like reading from the curriculum a lot "vessel for content"
	- other trainers also think the materials are so well written that I can’t make it better when I improvise.
	- On reflection, I (Eric) feel like adding personal anecdotes related to content is an easy way to improvise and add our community-embedded knowledge
- Got lost twice due to connectiviity 
	- Had to reboot- good tip is to reboot before starting (SECOND!)
	- Good example of why to team teach
	- Electricity went off for 30 seconds while teaching again (close to end)

- Everyone feeling spent after running instructor training
- Have to make compromises about things like cognitive load for ourselves to meet our goals/priorities

Breakout rooms:

- Add something to instructor notes about planning for first time taking 10-15 minutes to debug them w/ creation, correct, working, situated
- need a way to test-run making breakout rooms, perhaps after this call. or make a call on slack
- possibly make a video about zoom breakout groups?

- Karin: Training went well, collaboration with Laura good. Time-focused tempered chattiness!
- 5th or 6th online teacher, had always been least experienced until this one. Felt empowered to be strict with asking to show faces, fix names, 
- People actually have to be there!
- Things went mostly well

Unsure of how to address folks who are very uncomfortable with having themselves on camera.

- Is it okay if they don’t have their camera on?  I can tell folks are are still involved by their participation in the ether pad.  I do prefer to see their faces but maybe there are reasons they don’t want to?
- Maneesha: unsure if we should expect people to have camera on all the time. 
- If people called on to speak, people would turn camera on.
- Some zoom chat discussion mentioning more people keeping cameras on after breakouts
- Can take a while to realize some off-camera people weren't participating in etherpad/google-doc. 
- Karin thinks maybe OK to have people excused for a while, but discomfort with lots of people from one site filling in participation for others 
- Virtual backgrounds exist! Arrow near video button in zoom (Eric can't find quickly) 
- Important to note also that some people want to use a camera but have connectivity issues so turning off the camera increases participation

#### Sarah and Maneesha

- Super nervous leading up, super exhausted afterwards
- Once starts, feels better!
- 3rd one!
- Participants want more time before giving feedback to strangers
- Thinking about mindset section: 
- How keep what we're teaching up to date with research that's out there? Further discussion warranted!

> “some of the content is out of date (there have been issues with grit and resilience being racially insensitive, and growth mindset has only been shown to be marginally effective and the studies non-replicable) “ - very connected to privilege and socioeconomic status. 

- Really good room, nice division of time. Both instructors present all the time.
- Maneesha like seeing how Sarah called on people after each exercise. (one or two each time) "You said ...., can you tell us more?" - nice way to keep people connected - this works well for many instructors, better than summarizaing it for the leanrers
- Breakout room trick: if people are co-located, but them in a breakout room together (even if they don't use it during their breakout)
- Another time issue was having groups of different sizes. Any tips for how to deal with this when using breakout rooms for teaching demos etc?
	- Even if people are co-located, I tell them what their group size should be. Variation will usually only be by one person. Have them split themselves up.
- One of the live-coding exercises on day 2: we decided to allow them to be five people in a group. Avoid one-to-one feedback of group of two.
	- Easier to give less personalized feedback with a 3rd person
	- Danielle: Leave choice up to group "Listen, you've got 25 minutes for this, that gives rise to the following constraints"

### Announcements

Notes and video from last month's call (July 2019):

- Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16z3mE_7VePSiXfF66uDsSl7kKzAh4eit5Ho2e3iNJ6o/edit#slide=id.g3b8317a2f2_1_29
- Video also available, email Christina, Rayna or Karen

Help us articulate The Carpentries Values

- Here's the message to kick off the conversation on Discuss: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T9029fc4692993ab1/input-needed-help-us-articulate-the-carpentries-values
	- We're working to articulate our values after becoming a great global organization
- Here's the Google form: https://forms.gle/gZmafyLVKAHBqfgc6
- Here's the GitHub issue: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/21

Anonymous form open for incidents outside the CoCc mandate

- Discuss post: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T3ec6559f43b64ab1-Maf358c7e48df41a32c444675/anonymous-form-open-for-incidents-outside-cocc-mandate
- Blog post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/08/collecting-incidents-community/
- Anonymous form: https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/nRbKnO
- Looking how to handle incidents that fall outside of the CoC, how to recommend action, support structures, understand when community wants the carpentries to respond. Forms not for submitting CoC reports. 

### Topic of the Month: Looking forward and back

#### Looking Forward: Trainer Active/Inactive Status over the next year

- Want to create a formal way for people to take a break, or retire. 
	- Good for you - can suspend duties, not get emails, etc.
	- Good for the Carpentries - know how big the trainer pool is. 
- New "Trainer-Inactive" status
	- Can be temporary or permanent. 
	- Suspensions of commitments described here: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html
	- Some options are opt-in/out (like being removed from email lists)
	- Any objections to proposed requirements for returning to active status?
		- < 3 months no requirements - contact team@carpentries.org to request reinstatement
		- 3-12 months: meet with Trainer Trainer to catch up on latest news & discuss plans for re-activating
		- 12+ months: review Trainer Training curriculum, observe part of an Instructor Training workshop, and meet with Trainer Trainer to catch up and discuss plans, and re-introduction to the Trainer community via meetings or other arrangements.
- What is this "custom agreement" option?
	- Some Trainers are temporarily or permanently limited by internet connectivity or other technical constraints that prevent them from participating in certain ways, but still wish to remain part of the Trainer community
	- In these cases, other activities directly related to the Instructor Training community or program may be substituted on a case-by-case basis to support continuing involvement
	- Has been implemented informally in the past. Any objections to formalizing customized agreements?
- Work in Progress!!! Give us brief feedback now or email Karen before August 19: krword@carpentries.org

Great idea to send out survey to collect feedback around inactive status. 
- 88 badged instructor trainers! 
- 68 committed to remain active
- 6 requested custom agreements
- 7 requested leave
- Rest haven't responsed

Motivation

- Assuage guilt and communication overload, way to feel good about stepping back.
- Help with planning. 
- Quality vs. quantity question informing effort investing.
- Can be temporary or permanent inactive status
	- Note on when transition made included in badges
- Trainer alumni page in the works. Inactive status will auto-publish (with permission) to alumni page.
- Several on leave have requested to stay on communication channels
	- Relevant for staffing trainings

Feedback requested

1. return to active status requirements (up at 161)
	- Danielle and eric love this new status!
2. Custom agreements (up at 164)
	- Karin: Err toward inclusivity (paraphrased, Eric agrees!)
	- Karen: wants people to feel prepared to teach
	- Christina: Have some alternative ways of remaining prepared to teach 
	- Eric: have there been any instances of trainers missing one or two requirements and, if - so, what were the repercussions?
	- We never got around to actually doing this (checking on whether people fulfilled the requirements) so this is mostly about helping the trainers to be able to participate in the ways that you are able to.
	- This is purely practical and we want to give people a chance to step back without guilt and in a structured way such that planning can happen.

#### Looking Back: Share some "green stickies" from the past year of training

- Taught a training event with 10 + participants from Eastern Canada (wahoo! building up the community here is a personal goal <3)
- Got to see so many amazing people step up to become Trainers and have had great experiences teaching
- Building community in the instructor trainings, even just a single cohort from one training, IS SO GREAT    
- Loved teaching in person instructor training, lots of these folks have started teaching in our local workshops! 
-  I taught with Kate Hertweck for the 1st time. We taught together for my 1st software carpentry workshop

    
    
### Summary:

- Breakout rooms are hard the first time
- Attendence, list of names, video share, groups of 5 are hard
- Revamp mindset section?
- Leave, most people pleased with the option to leave or have alternative options. however, despire efforts to assuage concerns, many people are concerned that they will be given the boot if they miss a requirment or two. have used the response to decide to wait for another session of training until January


### Post meeting discussion

- Burnout and lifespan and engagement
- accountability and leadership/facilitation training

## Meeting 2
    
Trainer Meeting Aug 15, 2019 UTC 22:00 (Rayna)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190815T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

- Murray Cadzow

**Others attending**

- Karen Word (may have to disapppear unpredictably)
- Mik Black
- Christina Koch (for the first part)
- Chris PU Njoku
- Sarah Brown 
- Masami Yamaguchi   

### Discussion

#### Murray/Mik

- Murray/Mik did a training recently at the end of July, online
- About 18 people; some co-located groups and some distributed
- Breakout rooms were very useful, but some people couldn't be assigned to a breakout room easily ( people using web client or specific settings on their computer?)
- Murray/Mik were in the same room - very nice to be able to chat in person!!
- Hard to keep to time; feedback from the group that they weren't on schedule
- But (of course), people wanted more time to discuss all the things! ;)
- Material got "pulled forward" as people asked questions, so even if they fell behind at points, the later material went quickly because it had already been touched on
- Q: what material?
	- procedural stuff
	- experience actually running workshops
- Feedback: took time to learn how to participate through zoom (muting / un-muting, etc.). 
	- Could be useful to have a how-to guide for how to use zoom and participate. 
	- Could also have an "office hour" for people to join and practice using zoom
	- Really valuable to have time to play around with zoom features

### Announcements

Notes and video from last month's call (July 2019):

- Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16z3mE_7VePSiXfF66uDsSl7kKzAh4eit5Ho2e3iNJ6o/edit#slide=id.g3b8317a2f2_1_29
- Video also available, email Christina, Rayna or Karen

Help us articulate The Carpentries Values

- Here's the message to kick off the conversation on Discuss: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T9029fc4692993ab1/input-needed-help-us-articulate-the-carpentries-values
	- We're working to articulate our values after becoming a great global organization
- Here's the Google form: https://forms.gle/gZmafyLVKAHBqfgc6
- Here's the GitHub issue: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/21

Anonymous form open for incidents outside the CoCc mandate

- Discuss post: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T3ec6559f43b64ab1-Maf358c7e48df41a32c444675/anonymous-form-open-for-incidents-outside-cocc-mandate
- Blog post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/08/collecting-incidents-community/
- Anonymous form: https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/nRbKnO

### Topic of the Month: Looking forward and back

#### Looking Forward: Trainer Active/Inactive Status over the next year

- Want to create a formal way for people to take a break, or retire. 
	- Good for you - can suspend duties, not get emails, etc.
	- Good for the Carpentries - know how big the trainer pool is. 
- New "Trainer-Inactive" status
	- Can be temporary or permanent. 
	- Suspensions of commitments described here: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html
	- Some options are opt-in/out (like being removed from email lists)
	- Any objections to proposed requirements for returning to active status?
		- < 3 months no requirements - contact team@carpentries.org to request reinstatement
		- 3-12 months: meet with Trainer Trainer to catch up on latest news & discuss plans for re-activating
		- 12+ months: review Trainer Training curriculum, observe part of an Instructor Training workshop, and meet with Trainer Trainer to catch up and discuss plans, and re-introduction to the Trainer community via meetings or other arrangements.
- What is this "custom agreement" option?
	- Some Trainers are temporarily or permanently limited by internet connectivity or other technical constraints that prevent them from participating in certain ways, but still wish to remain part of the Trainer community
	- In these cases, other activities directly related to the Instructor Training community or program may be substituted on a case-by-case basis to support continuing involvement
	- Has been implemented informally in the past. Any objections to formalizing customized agreements?
- Work in Progress!!! Give us brief feedback now or email Karen before August 19: krword@carpentries.org


Comments:

- over subscribed for trainers, so its hard for some people to fulfill those obligations
- Question by Chris:  Murray mentioned "Hard to keep to time." This time issue had always come up. How can it be tackled really? 
	- Mik: created some slides of bullet points to put up, it helped him stick to time as well
	- Karen uses "subtiming" or a fine resolution timing suggestions

- Question: Could there be some documentation on the "request to retry" checkout demo process? What do we email this person?
	- https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/email_templates_trainers.html#trainee-didnt-pass-teaching-demo Karen will work on revamping with instructions for what to do next

#### Looking Back: Share some "green stickies" from the past year of training

- becomming an instructor trainer
- communication with co-instructors, have trained 15 or 16 instructors
- traveled to Perth to do a face to face to teach workshops
- seeing people go from helpter to instructor (learner -> instructor too)
- hearing people report on their workshops after they have been trained. process of renewal can be scary but the response has been so positive