# Trainer meeting, November 7, 2019  UTC 14:00 (Karen)
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191107T14

***Training discussion (pre and post):***

- Aleks Nenadic (I am away on business and have meetings all day but if possible will try to join), https://gcapes.github.io/2019-10-08-ttt-manchester/, https://arctraining.github.io/2019-09-25-ttt-leeds
- Blooms is hard to cover when you're short on time. 'use it or lose it'
- GitHub exercise is at the end of day 2 and if you're behind you have to cut it. Also people are pretty tired, and if you're not proficient with GitHub it can be a bit of a burden.
- People unfamiliar with the community in particular can be blindsided by this whole GitHub thing.
- Should we keep the name live coding for people using the OpenRefine lesson e.g.?

- Kari L. Jordan & Sher! https://sheraaronhurt.github.io/2019-10-09-ttt-uga/
- Slides (Morning) https://drive.google.com/open?id=1C0MTsUk9fOzfgD5p0bfScNAMqm7XskyY-oThem-iFeI
- Slides (Afternoon) https://drive.google.com/open?id=1zZ0IEC4vYtennsmSGB3Bf37p4iGfWxQLrCBveo93vF4
- We shifted workshop intros ahead on the second day so that they could include their workshop intro in their live coding demo when they did it the second/third time around. Worked well! Added more time to the teaching demos (which helped this section to work better too). Started the timer after they did their intro.
- A comment about someone having anxiety after the exercise on testing your working memory.
- Scenarios for Code of Conduct violations: groups talked through scenarios and potential actions as instructor or workshop host. People seemed to feel more empowered and know what to do when dealing with incidents.
- Nobody said they didn't understand mental models! Not sure what they did but look at the slides

- Karen (& Nico & Rayna) https://npalopoli.github.io/2019-10-28-ttt-lima/
- Sher! Columbia

***Others attending***
- Laura Acion, University of Buenos Aires, lacion@gmail.com
- Maneesha Sane
- Sarah Stevens
- Christina (if I can get zoom installed)
- Sher

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- It's nice when people come with their friends
- Sher can send emails for in-person events if you want -- you don't need to send your own emails for those events if you
### Announcements
- Don't forget to fill out the Availability Form for next Quarter's Instructor Training workshops: https://forms.gle/HZFKqLQEde8qpcAk6
- CZI grant! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/czi-moore-grant/
- Christina is stepping down from curriculum/community maintenance for a while (because CarpentryCon!) We will not only be looking to replace her during her absence, but also to expand and structure governance within this community to accommodate growth. Stay tuned for more on this!
- Request for comment on encouraging / accepting contributions to non-official lessons for Instructor Training checkout: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/6 (Erin)
### Topics of the month
- New Instructor Trainer application
- General discussion
- Rubric?
- Make your pitch!
- Trainer Training: https://carpentries.github.io/trainer-training/


# Trainer Meeting November 7, 2019 UTC 22:00 (Rayna)
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191107T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Rayna (and Karen and Niko)   https://npalopoli.github.io/2019-10-28-ttt-lima/
- Darya (pre Monash) and Paula

***Others attending***
- Murray Cadzow
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Darya
- Sarah Brown
- Amy Hodge
- Elizabeth Williams

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Rayna, Karen, Niko)   https://npalopoli.github.io/2019-10-28-ttt-lima/
- slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ruVxa_qYNCfp_UbbscA2E6DY85fU2dN_pa-jCMZeb14/edit?usp=drive_web&ouid=108542948824361321088
- Instructor training 100% in spanish. Translated slides (to help overcome language barrier)
- Slides worked really well.
- Cut faded examples, but otherwise good on time. Mental model discussion effective.
- Effective demonstration of capability. Conveyed complex things in a different language.
- Prepped full translation ahead of time. Read from translation. Don't read "how we operate" -- it doesn't work
- Activities point to *many* other texts, which complicates other-language instruction.
- Problem keeping documents in sync!
- Prepping everything from scratch gave lots of perspective.
- No established norms of when translation from a co-instructor should translate.
- From Darya: Very hard to have co-instructor translate. Requires different mindset.
- Get third person in as *pure* translator if needed.
- Too many mental mode-shifts needed.
- Darya volunteers to teach instructor training in Russian.

***Feedback:***
- Learners happy reading/listening in other languages, but unwilling to speak
- EW: Motivation stems from learners watching instructors struggle with multiple languages.
- Darya and Paula (Monash)
- Set up shared notes, etherpad, allocated roles.
- Slides as prompt for talking?
- Create cognitive framework. Prompting for discussion.
- Etherpad should work for IRL teaching well.
- AH: Talking takes a *lot more time* than online. Think-pair-share, etc, moved to discussion rather than people typing in the pad. Expectation that people sitting in room will be talking to each other rather than typing. Important balance for introverted people.
- Darya: https://kahoot.it/ as venue for MCQs. Good icebreaker, doesn't take itself seriously
- BBS/RH: Worth revising our position on slides. Make sure we're using the tools correctly. Incoherency between what we say about slides and what practices we've grown to use.
- EW:  Using tools correctly. Maybe the response to the argument is that it is really easy to misuse slides, so in the curriculum it was decided to say no for beginning teaching. That's why you should make yourself uncomfortable every once in a while! Everything is relative....
- Amy and Karen
- Plans for complete coherency!
- Don't forget to fill out the Availability Form for next Quarter's Instructor Training workshops: https://forms.gle/HZFKqLQEde8qpcAk6
- What to do when you don't know your schedule? you can say that in the form
- In australia, some problems could have been solved if they had waited to pick dates. would be beneficial to coordinate locally between instructors to minimize travel. the quarter system doesn't work, better to plan on a yearly basis
- Would be good to have call with Australia and New Zealand to discuss needs and challnges and coordinations
- New zealand has more instructors than demand for workshops currently
- Relates to reinvisioning membership and instructor training program. Good idea to explore a regional corrdination model +100
- CZI grant! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/czi-moore-grant/
- Lots of money, in particular towards instructor training
- Christina is stepping down from curriculum/community maintenance for a while (because CarpentryCon!) We will not only be looking to replace her during her absence, but also to expand and structure governance within this community to accommodate growth. Stay tuned for more on this!
- Request for comment on encouraging / accepting contributions to non-official lessons for Instructor Training checkout: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/6 (Erin)

### Topics of the month
- New Instructor Trainer application
- Goal: create a rubric that will help increase transparency
- Make your pitch!
- Optional references is tricky. Need to balance fairness and equity with allowing communties to have a say.
- A form might be okay? would provide a mechanisms for getting the information you need without writing a letter. Maybe have a supplementary section where people can list local communiites
- e.g. ratings on specific criteria and a short Q&A
- (one diversity scholarship I supported a student for asked how isolated the student was)
- Checking references is time-consuming.
- What problem are we trying to solve? - need community review
- Trainer Training: https://carpentries.github.io/trainer-training/
