# Trainer Meeting

## Meeting 1

February 7, 2019 UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190207T14

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

* Christina Koch

**Others attending**

* Kari L. Jordan
* Chris PU Njoku
* Aleks Nenadic
* Sher!
* Anne Fouilloux
* Sarah Stevens
* Anelda vd Walt
* Maneesha Sane

### Training Discussion

Anelda - training in Somaliland last month by Mateusz + Jessica
- waiting for details (blog post hopefully)
- some photos on Twitter
- Next workshop from 18 -20 March in SA with Malvika along with 3 new trainers from the current cohort (Saymore, Katrin, Samar)

Sarah - how to do think/pair/share online? 
- Aleks: depends on the group; will split people into groups sometimes, other times does whole group discussion // can bundle the exercises

Christina - 
- Needed to be more flexible with splitting people up.  Tried during intro and it got complicated.
- Group came up with excellent examples of expert blindspots
- Struggled with concept maps on day 1.  Have had it go well in the past but this time it didn't seem to go well.  How do you teach concept maps? What do you find people engage with the most in that section?
    - Aleks - Also had a difficult time one time, students were questioning every bit of evidence we were giving them and feedback said that they wanted more feedback in this area. Useful tool for creating new materials, need to stress that. We are teaching them how to teach workshops but we have these pieces of how to create materials within the lessons as well. Morning of day 1 is long and heavy. 
    - Sher! - Taught in person and did a simple how to make a bed concept map.  This was a simple breakdown and seemed to give them a good idea of a concept map. 
    - Christina - We have discussed making this a non-programming, non-scientific example, maybe need to change in materials.
    - Maneesha - I also try to take this away from programming and scientific to make it more accessible for everyone.  In MCQ example we break it down to simple arithmetic example.  Examples from first grade. :-D

### Announcements 
* Help wanted for teaching demos! https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
* Maneesha will be sending out the scheduling email for May-Aug in March, be on the look out.
* RFC is open for Code of Conduct documentation https://github.com/carpentries/coc-guidelines-taskforce/issues until Feb 17th
* Anelda stepping back from Carpentries
* Let Karen, Christina, Rayna know if you have ideas of things you want to discuss on these calls
    - Kari: More about the release schedule process

### Topic of the Month: Curriculum issues! 

Post your favorites here for discussion:
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/882
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/847
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/728

Discussion of issue 847
- Maneesha - think it is actually good to have them teach a lesson the trainer is not familiar with since they can provide the perspective of the novice learner
- Anne - think the directions are pretty good but still get people choosing lessons not on the list, maybe adding something that says if you are unsure email
- Christina - show people who are checking out the lessons list 
- Kari - need to be consistent.  Use the official lessons.
- Christina - Need to add the list of library carpentry lessons that can be used for checkout
- Please add your comments to the issue as well.

Discussion of issue 882
- Not talking about who is accepted and if you need to have been to a workshop before you can attend instructor training
- Instead solutions for dealing with a diversity of experience in the room
- Anne and Aleks - most were familiar with the carpentries but had 3-4 in room which weren't familiar, didn't get much feedback from the people who weren't as familiar but might have been fast for them since the rest of the room was familiar with the carpentries, since the poll was anonymous hard to know who to check on, helps with motivation if they are familiar already.
- Maneesha - had a mix in the training I've taught, think we need to make the distinction between those coming from member sites vs open training.  Member sites may invite people or they have been participating, open training provides an opportunity for people to join who may not have had the opportunity to attend/connect with a carpentries event.
- If someone has never seen a workshop, what can we do to set the stage to help these people get to know the carpentries better?
    - Maybe the pre-reading or online videos
- Side note: might need to make the homework more explicit in the email since it seems people are often surprised by this still.
- Please add your comments to the issue as well.

Discussion of issue 728
- Seems like people agree that this needs to be done, if someone wants to help with this...help welcome :-D Aleks might help :-D

## Meeting 2

Trainer Meeting February 7, 2019 UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190207T22

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

**Others attending**

* Brian Ballsun-Stanton
* Amy Hodge
* Elizabeth Wickes (likely a few min late)
* Tracy Teal
* Juliane Schneider (may have to drop off a bit early)
* Darya 
* Chris PU Njoku (Sorry I couldn't make the !st meeting and had to adjust for this)
* Elizabeth Williams
* Mark Laufersweiler (need to leave early)


### Training Discussion

* Juliane -- calgary library carpentry trainning yielded really good checkout rates and lots of people planning workshops. Most engaging was accessibility. They had already been there for 2 days so it was impressive that they stuck it out. Lots of people traveled to come Great
* Elizabeth did a local checkout demonsration, also huge completion maybe 50% within 1.5 monhs
* Amy is planning to teach 2 1-day unofficial trainings for librarians in Toronto with Greg. Not sure what will be in the curriculum. Then on Saturday for "the general public" hoping that's not totally general but no idea what the selection process might be! Offered in-person checkout demos the next day only 4-5 took them up on it. 
* Elizabeth workshop was farther ahead of the demo session, had time to do their discussion and practice a bit.
* Mark: Some learners are kind of hung up on the demo. Technically could host an in-person demmo, but feel a bit guarded about cohort. Is it an unfair advantage that would seem unwelcoming? making it easier for them compared with others? Has done makeup meetings for instructor training, but worried about favoritism.If those people eventually will be teaching in-person, does it follow that they must do online demo?
* Darya: one of the great things about the demo sessions is the feedback on teaching. Someone slightly or significanlty more experienced giving you feedback. The cool thing aabout an unfamiliar person is 1) it's uncomfortable which builds confidence when successfu, and 2) feedback from other students. That sense of randomm people builds community. Helping trainers get experience, building confidence. Having an external person might do that better. Maybe find a trainer overseas and then host a demo together for local people?
* Elizabeth: came up in May last year, asked and were told no then but later on came up again and got a yes. We respected the favoritism potetial. But there are people who have checked out who maybe should have tried again... our bar is really not that high that it's going to succumb to favoritism. If we can't handle being objective about people... As far as becomnig part of the broader ccommunity, yes in the ideal world they would, but making it open to give people choice made it convenient and increased checkoout rates. The benefit of reaffirming the reatiionship with the local steering group was tremendous. Strongly beneficial, really appreciates the ban being lifted.
* Juliane: its good to have these options, because sometimes we really need to get people through. The more they hold off the more they aren't ever going to check out. If you get them into their first workshop with experienced instructors, that reinforces things where they see it in action so even if they are passed when they shouldn't be they have opportunities to catch up if they are motivated.
* Darya: still a little concerned about number of checkout being more important than how many people go on to teach. I'd rather have 3 people checkout and all three go on to teach. Ties into the question of how much experience learners should have before they go on to become a Carpentries insructor. Why we are getting peole involved who have never been to a wworkshop -- helper, attendee host -- this could be pre-addressed by having them tangentially touch a workshop. Not everyone seems to agree that the numbers for ccheckout aren't that improtant
* Mark: this question has come up beore are we worried about getting them certified when they may not have opportunities to teach. They will make good teachers, and we work reallyl hard when hosting locallyl to be sure that people are paired with experienced instructors . Yes they should attend one, but sees cases in point where facullty may not have had it but grad students have. Not worriied aout certified for them, they are being trained as champions. If thye want to that's great. If they're there and they haven't participated in the ccarrpentries not sure about the motiivation for them. Working through adversity is a good point. 
* Elizabeth: context to the 7 -- may not just be numbers but it's all we have. In previous cohorts we have only had 2-3 go on to checkout. We do know that people who don't checkout generally don't teach, so this really increases the potential for people to teach. Gives them more people to tap

### Announcements 

* Help wanted for teaching demos! https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
	* Aus/nz will propose times that they can handle
	* Scouts can request custom times, signup for people who can't find a slot. Schedule with them to make something work . Would this work for us?
	* This would require coordinatiion
	* If Trainers in Australia just put down times that work for them, and other folks can just work with that time...
	* Aus/nz will figue out what they want to do
* Maneesha will be sending out the scheduling email for May-Aug in March, be on the look out.
* RFC is open for Code of Conduct documentation https://github.com/carpentries/coc-guidelines-taskforce/issues until Feb 17th
* Let Karen, Christina, Rayna know if you have ideas of things you want to discuss on these calls

### Topic of the Month: Curriculum issues! 

Post your favorites here for discussion:
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/882 +1    
	* Mark: Phd candidates who don't now how to teach are people consistently targeted for instructor training. Try to get them involved with a workshop, but even if not, motivation to become a better teacher is enough. If they don't certify that's ok -- they still have gotten something that is good for academa
	* Elizabeth: balanced approach. Some who have been active, have been trying to get in. Always invite people who ouldn't finish previous round, a few small groups that actually yield instructors. Nexxt round atually have a few people of Univesty of Chicago.  At the end if slots still available advertise campus-wide,, fills in a lot. usually only 5--8 people who we know are interested and eager, but have .had a lot of people come in from general interest as well.
	* Darya: problem with PhD students and faculty not getting training in teaching. Australia is different -- universities do have sommoe systems in place to give you somme idea how to create courses in an evidence-based way. there is even a year-long 16 credit thing. So for us the special thing about the Carpeentries training is live coding. That is something you never encounter until you are in instructor training. If they don't get an idea that this is different until they have to go out and teach it is really challenging. People checkout but still don't feel comfortable teaching. Also specifically teaching these things *for research* is new. They never get a chance to digest the specifics that matter to their teaching. This is where this comes from
	* Tracy: the problem sounds like it isn't should we have people who have never seen a carpenries worksho, but for lots of reasons we will, so how do we in our instructor training present the content in an effective and compelling way is that fair?
	* Darya: confused about when this happened that it's not even a decision, and should that be the case for all communities. For established communities, this predates things. Why are we not having a discussion about should this be happening?  When did it happen that it stopped being a requirement?
	* Chris: On how tohandle audience of mixed experience, a wonderful idea by Christina is including “a mandatory opening exercise where everyone shares their goals/what they're hoping to get out of the training. As she added, this really gives the instructor a sense  of participants' data and software skills and experience with the Carpentries. It as well helps instructor form ideas of how to carry everyone along.  I agree with Amy that this will take some time. I think time spent on it is time well spent. 
	* Chris:  Yeah,Karen.  I suggest some lessons relating to Carpentries operations (like How We Operate) should be brought to the early times of the workshop.
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/847
* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/845

