# Trainer meeting, October 3, 2019  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191003T14

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Christina Koch ( https://mikemhenry.github.io/2019-09-05-ttt-online-PDT/ )
- Kari & Sher (https://sheraaronhurt.github.io/2019-10-09-ttt-uga/)
Sample slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C0MTsUk9fOzfgD5p0bfScNAMqm7XskyY-oThem-iFeI/edit#slide=id.g59c028797c_0_93

***Others attending***
- Karen Word
- Kari L. Jordan
- Angela Li
- Katrin Leinweber
- Sarah Stevens
- Fran√ßois Michonneau
- Anne Fouilloux
- Sher!

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topic of the month: How can we better support our Maintainer community?
***What are the problems that maintainers have with the way that newcomers interact with their curriculum?***
- Trainees don't know what happens after they make a lesson contribution as part of checkout. When they're doing it they don't know what to expect, sometimes there isn't any follow up and they are wondering what's going to happen +1 +1
- There might be confusion around release shedules or how often lessons are updated. Different per lesson? In general -- how often do maintainers go in and look at PRs and do releases for the lessons?
- There's the maintainer side -- maintaining a lesson is hard. There's lots of input coming in small big, hard to triage and determine when you should act. It's not clear what the goal is -- is it to improve the curriculum or show that you've read it? In the past we've talked about our goal being just familiarizing people with our process... what *is* the goal? Is there a different way... people's bios used to get added through a github PR. Should we have a more specific exercise?
- Not everyone submits via github. Maybe 1-2 per week submit via email.
***What is it like from the maintainer's perspective?***
- R inflammation is old, so we don't get too many. If they don't follow the rules
- Are contribution guidelines the same for all lessons?
- Did tweak them for R inflammation, so they diverge a little bit.
As a new maintainer:
- One person recently posted a "we should expand this to include ALL THE THINGS" and sort of assumed this person was checking out. Had to say thanks but decline. Can't tell how invested they are in their opinion because is it just checking a box or something they were really motivated to submit. PRs are *most* useful after someone has taught the lesson.  This is also perspective from a beta-ish lesson.
Also have labeled things as "good first issues" but people don't seem to be finding them. Maybe they don't feel comfortable with GitHub (particularly common in Social Sci). People still feel really intimidated. Or maybe GitHub doesn't have to be part of the checkout.
- Since checkout has changed we have had fewer pull requests
- What do people think about the newer GitHub feature -- you still can't label your issues but they changed the issue template, so we could create a checkout template. *This* could have a label attached to it. Question then becomes what should other options be? +1
- The template may also allow automatic tracking and trainees may not need to e-mail
- Maybe we could also have a template for asking questions about how to contribute?
1) Pick a repository. 2) Read through the issues. Do you notice any themes, labels, etc. 3) Read through the lesson --- could we create a worksheet for contributions? Step by step? We moved to issues because people
- Have we ever rejected a contribution for checkout? No. On staff side we accept everything -- as long as they submitted something. Who would be responsible for deciding if something is sufficient? Should we have criteria?
- Most contributions do have substance.
- On newer lessons we know that certain things need work. We may intetionally leave things open. Having guest maintainers come in for Instructor Training when they want help?
- Community discussion? How lessons and contributions work hosted by a group of maintainers. Stay and make a contribution! Would be great. Combine with bug bbq for a particular repo?
- Video for people interested in contributing to a particular repository?
- Having the opportunity to *meet* the contributors would be valuable for the maintainers
- Meetings and social engagements like these could also contribute towards keeping maintainers engaged

***How can we better train instructors to interact with the curriculum in a way that is helpful to maintainers?***
- E.g. refer to & use external resources more often, rathen than incorporating a rephrased version into our lessons (more content to maintain). E.g. https://github.com/swcarpentry/git-novice/pull/682
- Instructor training could use more instructions on using exteral resources. For some sections it's valuable, in other cases we could simply trust other communities to improve material that we only refer to. If they are more official or simply larger? This would reduce our maintenance load. Can we ask them to consider whether content already exists? It's clear for everyone that lessons are growing. It would be helpful to instill a mindset that considers slashing content that is borrowed from elsewhere. +1
- Lessons are far too long. _Working on the objectives_ could be useful -- often content ends up deviating +1
- Different mindsets for maintainer groups are fine, but instructor training could use some shared, common denominators +1

***How can we improve the lesson content around checkout to make this process easier on maintainers?***
***How can we better prepare (or persuade!) new instructors to be maintainers?***

***How can we help onboard new maintainers so they feel they're contributing to the lesson they're maintaining?***
See Maintainer Onboarding (not actively being used): https://carpentries.github.io/maintainer-onboarding/ and https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/maintainers.html#maintainer-onboarding
Should we discourage contributions to certain established lessons? Should we actively point people at certain repositories that want attention?
PR to consider: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1035
Carpentries Conversations repo: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations
The instructor development committee is thinking of doing a project where they encourage contributions to instructor notes. Do maintainers need to approve changes to instructor notes? Do they care (for lack of a better word) about instructor notes? +1 +1

### Announcements & Business
- Carpentries Values contributions invited through Friday
- Want to be a virtual co-trainer in Peru?
- Demos signup went great -- now we need to do it again! This time will run through *March* to get back in sync with workshop signup. Don't know your 2020 schedule yet? We'll send reminders in January.
- Updates coming soon to Instructor Trainer applications. Early opinions welcome, and keep an eye out for this later in the month if you'd like to review.
- Scheduling 2020 Q1 online events - announcement coming in late October

### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Taught with Mike Henry at his first workshop! Went really well. Some comments: wasn't sure what to do about Mindset. Spent a lot longer on Motivation/demotivation. Reordered and it went ok?  Shortened mmindset and focused on behaviors that growth mindset encourages. Willingness to make mistakes seems to be pretty consistent and correlated with learning. Comment: should either not teacch or teach as written so mixed results there. Good remidner that having been in the Carpentries for a long time, Zoom and Etherpad are normal, but taking time to let people practice flipping between the two is valuable. Definitely have an expert blind spot there now. Walking people through is valuable.
- Liked how Mike talked about CoC. "A contract that we've agreed to so that we all can learn."
- One more change -- concept maps and faded examples... talked about limiting concepts or scaffolding. Concepts are one way to limit the concepts, and faded examples are a way to scaffold. No strong response + or 1.
- We had someone who really dominated the conversation. Feedback on both days. Kept a list on the second day... wasn't sure what else to do about it. Didn't communicate with Mike about calling on people that hadn't been heard from. Wasn't sure how to say "thanks but


# Trainer Meeting October 3, 2019, 2019 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191003T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Sarah Brown (post: https://brownsarahm.github.io/2019-09-10-ttt-cmu/ )
- Eric Jankowski (post: https://erjank.github.io/2019-09-19-ttt-boisestate/)

***Others attending***
- Rayna Harris
- Darya Vanichkina
- Murray Cadzow
- Peter Hoyt (might not make this one but will try)
- Elizabeth Williams
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Erin Becker
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topic of the month: How can we better support our Maintainer community?
####Debrief from this morning
- Has been discussed among maintainers: Making "to-do" lists for curricula, opening up "comments" as a mode of contribution
- Making things easier for maintainers: Could have "checkout friendly" tag. Asking people to make lists is work, putting things somewhere besides repo is maintenance. Tag could be used to auto-populate this list.
- At the moment we're requiring existing lesson contribution but what about the incubator? Novice instructors could really make a difference there. Maybe not all of them maybe just a few of them, focus on telling people how to contribute, outline needs etc. Might make it both safe for existing curriculum maintainers and get some of this new curriculum up and running faster.
- Would this increase the maintenance load for incubator lessons?
- Main takeaway from last in-person training was that it took way way too long to get people comfortable with what a "significant" contribution is. Could we get some examples? Links to examples of good contributions. [Note: contributions are not rejected, but we clearly aren't consistent in our messaging on this]
- If we had labeling maybe they wouldn't have to send emails to checkout? Could that automation save any effort?
- Mentoring cycle didn't work as well as previous cycles. Wonder if using mentoring framework -- offering option at end of instructor training to mentor people through the contribution process. Might quell concerns that they need to understand every detail about what they are about to do and broaden the community contributing. Being mentored by a maintainer might give people confidence that they could become maintainers, also.
- We could create screenshots of great examples also and include those in the curriculum
- Challenge, even when labeled "good first issue" not always seen
- Could we generate a set of links to the search results for "good first issues" instead of linking to the pages of the lessons - I just submitted this PR! :-D (for python-gapminder)
- Are checkout emails a significant staff burden? It's not a problem. Historically, Greg would subscribe to every repository and find every new ontribution and see if that person had recently been trained! We changed the process -- we can catch contributions in two ways .1 is AMY profile log and the other is they can email checkout@carpentries.org. Template response, add to AMY, sometimes this draws out questions.
***What can we do about maintainers feeling unprepared to answer checkout questions?***
- Would it make sense to have a liaison who could be tagged or brought in on these sorts of things?
- We could have a team in this role if the burden is too much for one person. People that get added to that team could be rotating Trainers. Challenge would be consistency, and help might be needed, but could be a good experience for Trainers and cultivate community.
- Short cycles with overlap generally are good to prevent burnout.
- Could possibly substitute for demos or other requirements?

***What are the problems that maintainers have with the way that newcomers interact with their curriculum?***
- How can we better train instructors to interact with the curriculum in a way that is helpful to maintainers?
- How can we improve the lesson content around checkout to make this process easier on maintainers?
- How can we better prepare (or persuade!) new instructors to be maintainers?
- How can we help onboard new maintainers so they feel they're contributing to the lesson they're maintaining?
- Should we discourage contributions to certain established lessons? Should we actively point people at certain repositories that want attention?
- PR to consider: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1035
- Carpentries Conversations repo: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations

### Pre and post workshop discussion
- In person workshop, stayed mostly on time, with the exception of checkout. Skipped some challenges because the discussion happened anyways. Wanted references for concept maps and couldn't find anything. Very appreciative of discussing how to build local community
- Check with Arindam Basu for some suggestions
- Internal workshop as part of platinum partnership. Goal, will standardizing tutorials be better if all are made by carpentries certified instructors? Online training with learners from multiple sites. Last minute changes to attendee list was frustrating. Learners didn't understand why have workshops if tutorials are online and they wanted a path through the pedagody and a path for working through it.
- Examples in r gapminder: https://swcarpentry.github.io/r-novice-gapminder/guide/
- Make sure you emphasize how valuable the instructor for guided learning.
- Lessons are a script. You can read hamlet or you can go watch it live and its a different, immersive experience and every play with different people who bring their individuality.
- Maybe add this to the "manging expectaions" section
- Students really appreciate the notes and having the instructor guide them. Need to have an agreement between co-instructors where to cut. Can help with fear of missing out as well
- Building a community of practice can help with encouraging people to interact with the curriculum after the workshop. Hacky Hour in Australia

### Announcements & Business
- Carpentries Values contributions invited through Friday
- Want to be a virtual co-trainer in Peru? if so, email Karen
- Demos signup went great -- now we need to do it again! This time will run through *March* to get back in sync with workshop signup. Don't know your 2020 schedule yet? We'll send reminders in January.
- Updates coming soon to Instructor Trainer applications. Early opinions welcome, and keep an eye out for this later in the month if you'd like to review.
- Scheduling 2020 Q1 online events - announcement coming in late October
- Brian made a thing: https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/etherpad/index.html (Is it worth making this a blog post on its own, or should we wait until I get the general version ready for all lessons?)
- Make blog post with call to action for feedback before getting it ready for all lessons, because it is great (also I said it was great on the lesson-infrastructure committee meeting in August (Sarah)
- THING IS GREAT - PAULA AND I WILL USE IT FOR MONASH AND GIVE FEEDBACK (Darya)

### General comments/suggestions from maintainers:
- The PR requirement for checkout creates a lot of "suggestions" and extra traffic on certain repos that have to be dealt with by maintainers - sometimes these are not informed by having taught the lesson, but by what "I personally think would be useful". I'm wondering if we could switch the order of the PR requirement, or make it something that you do after teaching a section of a workshop? Alternatively, we could offer "multiple paths" to checkout -- either you teach a workshop, assist in organizing a workshop, submit a PR, or do something else. Instructors may be in very different contexts, and different things may make sense for different instructor checkouts? (I understand if this could be confusing.)
- I've labeled several issues on my repo as "good first issues", but it doesn't seem like individuals are being led to find them. Can these be surfaced to new contributors more readily?
- Part of the issue may be that people feel uncomfortable with submitting a PR/working with Github, in which case should there be informal training on these topics for instructors? Or even a community call going over how to submit a PR to a lesson repo. I think that would be a great use of a community call, or a mentorship situation.
- We could highlight https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#opening-a-pull-request or the CONTRIBUTING.md files in each repo more
- If people are being told to fix formatting on lessons, could we provide them a link to the Carpentries Style Guide, or know confirm what type of spelling/capitalization we want in lessons? https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/resources/style-guide.html I have received 1-2 formatting "fixes" that go against this.
- How about asking people to shorten a particularly long sentence by rephrasing? Adhering to https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-02918-5 > "Minimize clauses, compound sentences and transition words " for example.
- I don't mind receiving new issues / PRs as part of checkout, but I'd like them to be clearly marked as such. There was a new issue where I had to address checkout concerns and I'm not involved in that, so I found it extra work to go and look this up. Provide people doing this as checkout a clear instruction that maintainers are not involved in the checkout process and cannot answer their questions?

***Specific problems that maintainers have with the way that newcomers interact with their curriculum?***

Suggested solutions that could be implemented via Instructor Training
- Can maintainers identify example PRs that were a good checkout contribution to help make "significant contribution" more clear?
- Does it need to be a significant contribution though?
- https://github.com/search?q=org%3Acarpentries+org%3Adatacarpentry+org%3Aswcarpentry+org%3ALibraryCarpentry+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22+is%3Apr&type=Issues might work & incentivise maintainers to tag such PRs with "good first issue". It would not interfere with the "need help" link on the ord page, because that targets issues only
- Template checkout for PR and issues to guide contributions
- Maintainers who want attention, coud do outreach, e.g. community discussion or onboarding meetings, building relationships
- Create and maintain an up to date to-do list for lessons on the carpentries website.
- Be more insistant that it doesn't have to be a pr but could be a comment.
- Add a checkout friendly tag that could be used to create a "development dashboard"
- Include a statment that contributions can be made to the incubator. see also https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1035
- Have a "team" on github that deals with checkout/training/maintance. Either the trainer maintainers and or a new group. They could work on a cycle to build community. could be an alternative assignment to demos or mentoring. having term limits would be great
