# Trainer Meeting

## Meeting 1

Trainer meeting, June 6 UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190606T14 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Rayna Harris, UC Davis, @raynamharris
* Cam Macdonell
* Sher! (pre)

**Others attending:**

* Lex Nederbragt, Univ. of Oslo, @lexnederbragt
* Christina Koch
* Amy Hodge, Stanford University
*  Maneesha Sane
* Sarah Stevens, University of Wisconsin - Madison, @microStevens
* Laura Acion, University of Buenos Aires, @_lacion_
* Chris PU Njoku  University of Nigeria
* Karen Word, UC Davis / The Carpentries / @karenword
* Erin Becker / The Carpentries / ebecker@carpentries.org
* Sher! | The Carpentries | sheraaron@carpentries.org
* Katrin Tirok
* Guilherme Castelão / castelao@ucsd.edu

### Notes:

Laura Acion

* Rayna recent teaching experience: Taught with Kate Hertweck and Cam McDonnel. For Cam was the first experience as trainer - but it is a seasoned instructor. The class was almost split in thirds. Rayna was remote and for the second day, the course switched to a more in-person version of it. Kate and Rayna are more etherpad oriented. It was a small group. It went great, very smoothly. There were always two people present because it was three trainers together. The slides are a good option to have, specially for people with English as a second language.
* Cam shares the advantage to have three trainers together. Also, different styles, for example, Kate follows closely the timing. The whole group was 8/9 persons. Things could get more challenging with a larger group. Two days in Zoom are a particular experience not seen in other contexts. Something to keep in mind is that your learners in instructor training may not have been to a Carpentries workshop before
* csv,conf in-person training slides:
	* Kari slides for Morning Day 1 and Morning Day 2 https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wc8_3DGZwfm9BuNjpv9AnaZBSmxKRPH_rqfoYQ13UgE/edit
	* Tracy's slides https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1xofrzDP9k2qAj6PKaOAs-XewrQb9u0yW


Sher! will be teaching next week in person at Carnegie Mellon. This is a requirement for a fellowship that wants their participants to have experience with teaching. They won't be familiar with The Carpentries. 

* Laura: has that experience! didn't go to workshops before doing training. Made it a priority to ask lots of questions! Ask a lot of questions of your participants if they don't.  
* Lex: If the audience is not interest in teaching at the Carpentries later, you could chose to not give them the overview about the Carpentries functioning. Sher! will find out.
* Amy: you could look into slides Greg has for a shorter course that excludes the Carpentries functioning but includes all the pedagogy. https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/13ohFt3D0EJ5PDbMaWTxnHH-hwA7G0IvY
* Sher: put a note on the workshop website to say that timings are tentative -- they want 90 minute lunches at 12
* Rayna: Tracy, Sue and I had to adjust a workshop to their schedule. Ended up cutting some episodes, Erin was concerned, but it worked out. Spent some extra tiime in the morning -- 3 more minutes -- and try to make sure that everything that is said is useful outside of the Carpentries context. 
* Karen: working on updating the email templates that go out to learners, suggesting to read the Executive summary to the required reading for workshop. Great for those without much exposure to The Carpentries
* https://carpentries.org/files/assessment/TheCarpentries2018AnnualReport.pdf (PR is here https://github.com/carpentries/handbook/pull/454/files )
* Amy: Has taught before where a schedule shift was requested. Made it work but, there was some confusion because the 8-4 schedule conflited with "suggested schedule" on the workshop website.  
* Christina: included instructions so the second day. It's pretty modular and flexible, particularly if you don't go into the details of how The Carpentries work.
* Sher!: this is all great. Elizabeth and Sher! will share shifts so they can taylor as the workshop goes. This helps a lot when you have to be flexible with the schedule.
* What are other's people suggestions for creating flexible workshop shedules, tailored to the needs or request sfrom the host. ? This could be elicited for the instructor notes 

### Announcements:

* Teaching demo hosts needed! Sign up here https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered or schedule your own. Instructions are here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NGoMYdoDOiQuXjo2LxFgJaNDXw88838osU-735tn0Vs/edit?usp=sharing . 
* Karen is working on improving this system. In the meantime, please look a the slots that need hosts. Otherwsie, you can create your own using the instruction in the doc.
* Mentoring groups are open! Please encourage new instructors to sign up https://goo.gl/forms/0Tiz8m1E2H5nlLus2 . Trainers interested in leading a mentoring group can sign up here https://goo.gl/forms/xKYytXTbI1PUo56C2 . For more about mentoring:  https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/mentoring/mentoring-groups.html 
* Lesson release is nearly complete! Last minute changes can still be made through Monday but get them in ASAP to leave time for review! Changes merged after Monday may not be included in the June release.
* Expected release date, about 6/19

### Topic of the Month: Teaching Demo Knowledge-Sharing

Handbook: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/trainers_guide.html?highlight=demo#running-a-teaching-demonstration
Email templates: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/email_templates_trainers.html

Before the demo: 
    
* Erin: how many people had Genomics people in their demo. How did it work.
* Rayna: she had. Let the person chose their starting point because Rayna didn't know. She was worried about the use of Amazon Cloud, but this was not an issue.
* Erin: if you don't have Amazonn Cloud it can be challenging to do the demo for the Genomics lesson because the datasets are so big. There are two sets of resources to address this: 1) a checklist https://datacarpentry.org/genomics-workshop/teaching_demos/index.html, 2) companion resource is the teaching material for instructor training:https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons/index.html - here you will find instructions for starting points and everything needed to run a demo for Genomics.
* About 80 people will be coming to teaching demos that want to use Genomics in the upcoming weeks. Let Erin know if you have any commments or experience with this lesson and materials.
* Lex sends a reminder email using a template. However, this isn't actually listed in "before the demo session" of the guide. Amy, S 
* Lex and some other send emails. Sarah uses her own template email. 
* Rayna: keeps her own demo log on when and where she started different lessons. To keep track and to save the day when she doesn't remember where a given lesson should start.

During the demo/After the demo: 
    
* overview of what to do in a demo https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/trainers_guide.html#during-the-demo  - it says to never tell immediately to the trainees if they passed or not. You can do it a the end. Maneesha does over email after. What is other's people experiences?
* Amy: always says will send an email later. If running late, will go ahead and say they passed. 
* Rayna: delaying to an email may generate some anxiety. If everyone passes, she says it in the room. If someone fails, she says "I will follow up later". Usually, if someone fails it's really bad and the rest of the group notices and having the "I will follow up later" tells those that did well, that she has to have a convo with someone.
* Karen: tries to diffuse tension in the beginning, emphasizing that it's to improve teaching. uses the language "we will invite you for a separate try" . Still doesn't say if you pass but does give a timeline for when to expect the eamil. 
* maneesha. has a personal intro for teaching demo, to highlight that teaching for 5 min to a screen is artificial and not representative and that we recognize that. emphasizes that we are looking for Carpentries pedagogy and clear speaking. 
* Christina: doesn't tell people they passed immediately. She follows up with an email. But she conveys at the end the idea with a "everyone did great"

Would people be up for changing the wording of what to do during the demo?

* Amy: yes, that would be good. 
* LEx: requests and update from Karen with the "invite to redo" language

* GUI: is there value in letting the participants reflect on the suggestions and comments? Delaying giving the "pass/fail" notification might give people more time to reflect on their performace
* Karen: is anxiety of no knowing important worth it for the benefit of reflecting on their performance. 

After the demo:

* Maneesha: How do you give feedback when you have less than 3 people?
* Rayna: when you have few people (n=1,2) you can give feedback by showing doing live coding.
* Christina: may ask Sarah to join and give feedback to each other

Final comments: 

* Rayna: next meeting 7/18 (no second meeting this month, 7/4 US Independence day)
* Karen is working on setting up Calendly where people can set their own demo schedule. (see line 91) https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NGoMYdoDOiQuXjo2LxFgJaNDXw88838osU-735tn0Vs/edit?usp=sharing . 


## Meeting 2

Trainer Meeting June 6, 2019 UTC 22:00 (Karen)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190606T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Sarah Brown (post) /Brown University / @brownsarahm
* Brian Ballsun-Stanton. Pre (July @ MQ, with trainer dropping) and post (Just done at Curtin with Masami)

**Others attending:**

* Erin Becker / The Carpentries / ebecker@carpentries.org
* Murray Cadzow
* Elizabeth Williams

### Notes:

* Sarah taught with Danielle Quinn. Went well overall, stayed on time without skipping or cutting too much. 3 groups in a room together, 6 individuals. There were times when breakouts became awkward -- how do you split and switch. In person people felt isolated from the rest of the cohort even though they enjoyed being together. Feedback was good, a few people wished that the talking to activity ratio was more balanced. One person requested slides because he felt that it would help orient to topics. Day 2 tried to take notes in the etherpad, which seemed to help. Followed advice not to fill the etherpad at first. Co-trainer pasted while Trainer taught. Some feedback existed both in + and - columns
* Re first time -- this content doesnt' come so naturally -- more practice with material might have made it feel more comfortable. But following the notes might have slowed it down in a good way.
* our workshop website setup, Danielle demo'd, we offered them to follow along and gave a few minutes to practice leading into a break, some said it was enough, some struggled time-wise
 
Brian Post: "On the beam"  staying on time was a challenge, though feedback indicates that they liked the war stories and motivated reasoning -- not super compelled to change much but did feel drained by the theatrics. We make a 'no holy war' point on language and then conduct a holy war against slides. We may want to discuss why we aren't demonstrating sides and why is live coding not compatible with slides / swapping back and forth. Got caught up in gigantic hairball trying to deploy sites. Roughly thirds on carpentries participation. Maybe half and half familiar unfamiliar. Getting to GitHub wasn't really time to live code it. If we want to keep that activity that needs to be a demonstration
 
Sarah reminded that Daniielle was switching episode order. A couple commented that they thought that switch was helpful. Day 2 strated with checkout and How we Operate in the morning, live coding before and after lunch. Some people wanted to sleep on it, maybe more foreshadowing about those things. 
 
alternate schedule: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12AYI-pXYP5MjaZ42aYUdhGvL12oYnQCNePwmS713WNo/edit#gid=0

* Brian will try that schedule
 
Re first time overprepared and anxious but went fine. Different philosophies of etherpad
 
Brian Pre: co-trainer is having emergency surgery and dropped out. Trying to get Darya to see if we can pay for her time as its cheaper than airfare. 
 
* Time periods between breaks are a little uneven. It's hard to split up the teaching evenly. 
* Sarah switched from 15 minute breaks to 5 then 10. Might be good to have some table changing in person. Doesn't work so well for online training.
 
Feedback and stickies:     

- Our feedback (everything documented) https://pad.carpentries.org/ttt-curtin-2019-05-30 
- my sticky note chart https://photos.google.com/search/_tra_/photo/AF1QipNhKnrYWU0HWrXThk15QEARRax12ABpJY6hYCjO 

### Announcements:

* Teaching demo hosts needed! Sign up here https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered or schedule your own. Instructions are here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NGoMYdoDOiQuXjo2LxFgJaNDXw88838osU-735tn0Vs/edit?usp=sharing . 
* Mentoring groups are open! Please encourage new instructors to sign up https://goo.gl/forms/0Tiz8m1E2H5nlLus2 . Trainers interested in leading a mentoring group can sign up here https://goo.gl/forms/xKYytXTbI1PUo56C2 . For more about mentoring:  https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/mentoring/mentoring-groups.html 
* Lesson release is nearly complete! Last minute changes can still be made through Monday but get them in ASAP to leave time for review! Changes merged after Monday may not be included in the June release.
* Member Organisation Survey: https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/hjtqBI
   
### Topic of the Month: Teaching Demo Knowledge-Sharing

A word on Genomics demos

1) a checklist https://datacarpentry.org/genomics-workshop/teaching_demos/index.html, These are instructions that trainees receive before they prepare for their teaching demos
2) companion resource is the teaching material for instructor training:https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons/index.html -This is the list of current start places for all teaching demos including genomics

* Please let us know if there are any problems with the use of this curriculum for teaching demos. If anything goes wrong reassure the learner and evaluate them on their pedagogy and not their technical success. They can pretend they loaded the fasta files etc. 
* Brian is submitting a PR to cross reference with the rubric. 
* Murray could remove 3 right hand columns and put the table directly into the Checkout curricculum page. Resolve the episode vs. lesson confusion. 
* Erin notes we don't want to have upkeep problems but maybe we could have it populated into the lesson.

Before the demo: 

* Murray pre-organized demos 2 weeks prior for NZ folks. Confirmed lesson, remind that entire curriculum is included. Worked well
* Sarah same but a few have very similar names and not sure wwhich one they were teaching. Want them to correct in advance so she can select episodes and copy paste into etherpad. Another thing it says is to visit the etherpad early, paste a link there -- saw Lex do this use a separate etherpad, prepopulated wth things 
    
During the demo:

* Notes in etherpad isn't mutually exclusive with verbal feedback. Can do both! Especially if using the rubric.  Brian follows the presentation content + - and asks them to create a note according to the rubric in each category. This generates more specific feedback in case of a tiebreaker. Everyone feels more co-equal and less of a Trainer-on high dynamic
* Murray pastes rubric into etherpad. Content + and content Improvement (not a negative) . Gets them to think of one in each and talk through.
* Erin has changed a lot over time. Used to paste the rubric in but have shifted now -- if you tell them at the very beginning what to focus on and tell them that feedback will be verbal. It comes out realyl well with negatives and positives and they use the rubric. It helps because they all give feedback on each other first, then can cross off things on the list as people mention them can agree with prior feedback prevents pronouncing from on high and also gives a chance to evaluate their feedbak .
* "Would I be willing to teach with this person" criterion - rubric helps to be more specific about this
    
After the demo: