# Trainer meeting, December 5, 2019 UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191205T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

- Karen

**Others attending**

- Kari L. Jordan
- Laura Acion
- Maneesha Sane
- Fotis Psomopoulos
- Christina K.

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Karen, Amy, and Rayna trained in Davis in person (n = 19), a number of participants were lost at the last minute. Karen prefers not to charge in spite of the desertation rate. It was during the weekend. A meetup after the training called Carpentry happened on Tuesday without many showing up because it was not a great idea, people too exhausted.
- On day 2 people asked for more time to practice. May be worth discussing how to pack more practice time.
- Was helpful to have three people in the room, so that one person (Rayna) could observe day 2 and reflect on content.
Ideas:
- Have a video for the "wall of text" afternoon about the Carpentries.
- How to balance what people *need* to know versus "go look it up in the handbook"
- Christina: was the goal to get people training in workshops in the local community in Davis?
- So far the goal was to train people at Davis.
- Building a community seemed like a good goal - talked to UFlorida people about how to do this (?)
- Some people are leaving and passing on leadership is needed, thus a strong local community is necessary (e.g. support the local instructors, instructor training+ (?))
- Fotis: in recent training, did timing of lunch to lunch (instead of morning - afternoon), so over three days instead of two.
- Was done mainly to accommodate participants coming from other places
- Had the side benefit that people hung around after and were less burned out/tired
- Laura A: recently did Rstudio training, was two mornings which was easier than two whole days
- Laura A: Greg also did 5 minute breaks every 45 minutes.
- Kari: Any notable green/red stickies?
- Red sticky: " Too much feedback was asked" by one person. People can be fatigued by asking feedback. A possible solution "you are paying us with your feedback"
- Maneesha: referring things that you got in the feedback helps, is encouraging, and shows the impact of feedback

### Announcements
- Please visit this PR re "Expert Awareness Gap" re-phrasing & add any comments before Monday: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1064/files
- Also! Rayna added a page for learner tweets and other contributions. Check out https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1067
- January meeting will use "placeholder" date (Jan 16).
- Trainer Community leadership planning has begun! An inaugural panel will establish an elections process within the next 3-6 months, and will begin to take on some roles as possible/practical. We have reached out to several people to ensure broad representation, but all Trainers are welcome to participate as we establish these processes. If you want to be involved, contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org).
- Karen will poll an organizational meeting soon to know more about this
- Topic of the month: Instructor Trainer Application Review
- Motivation: want to have a more documented process that (eventually) could be shared with the community, reproduce why people were accepted or not
- Proposed scoring: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CVeFrv4UcwM5VtokYj6njHb9Vm-HzZSERONDrPC3388/edit?usp=sharing
- Christina: concern with weighting certain questions (like Carpentries experience), and even teaching experience -- how much do we want people to have already versus training/experience we give them?
- Karen: There's going to be separate "bins" for people who are already connected to a Carpentries community/members rather than pioneers in a new place (for example)
- Laura: similar question to Christina
- Maneesha: question about native/non-native Spanish speaker
- Does it matter how you learned Spanish?
- Also indirectly asks about race/ethnicity, which we may not want to do?
- How should we handle personal acquaintance in the review process?
- Laura: if you know an applicant, disclose this and be excused from evaluation; you have additional information and don't want to review a friend
- Karen: But should you be able to leave a comment / review because you know that person and provide that valuable information?
- Fotis: How do you define "conflict of interest"? If you've specifically mentored people, then that's a good sign that they should be part of the Carpentries.
- Laura: can't be objective about mentees - that's part of mentoring.
- Fotis: increasing number of people who want to be part of this role, growing community and inequality will eventually go away.
- Karen: investing in mentorship should also have a reward!
- Christina: what's more equitable? Having an outside source provide extra information doesn't feel quite fair unless it's an opportunity available to all. One idea: allow people with additional information a "veto power". Another option: if there's a group of people that all "pass", send back to the mentor/membership contact to have them pick the top candidate.
- How should we balance rubric scores with subjective evaluation?


### Gratitudes! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/carpentries-gratitudes-series/
- Karen: Christina + Rayna, for curriculum help
- Laura: Rayna, for all her support
- Fotis: thankful for Karen - always enthusiastic about trainer-related things, pushing things forward (and getting up for calls at 6am), providing support on the back end
- Christina: pioneering trainers! Like Laura and Fotis. :) <3
- Long-term survey open until 20-Dec: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/carpentrieslongtermassessment
- Check out the opportunities for in-person training events in the USA, February and March 2020.  (4 sites, many date options - read the email from Maneesha)


# Trainer Meeting December 5, 2019 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191205T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***

- Rayna Harris with Amy & Karen in Davis
- Amy: awesome to teach with Rayna also in addition to Karen
- Rayna advocates for 3 instructions +1
- More instructors allows for better practicing what we preach
- Having three people and Tracy stopping by helps us practice what we preach and build community better and faster
- Mark Laufersweiler  / @laufers / University of Oklahoma Libraries
- Grateful for people coming back from Instructor Training to help out. Neat to step back, then come back and see things continuing to develop and people progressing
- Arin - Recently ran 1 online 2 day. With many co-instructors
- Darya will stop by the upcoming workshop to connect to larger community, also they want to talk about upcoming ResBaz

***Others attending***
- Arindam Basu, @arinbasu, arindam.basu@canterbury.ac.nz
- Darya Vanichkina, @dvanichkina d.vanichkina@gmail.com University of Sydney
- Murray Cadzow
- Sarah Brown
- Amy Hodge
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Chris PU Njoku

Agenda:
Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- Please visit this PR re "Expert Awareness Gap" re-phrasing & add any comments before Monday: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1064/files
gap implies missing or lack of and in relation to "expert" does it mean that experts are not aware?
- Driving one refers to the driver's blind spot.
- 2nd def:
- Lacking perception, awareness, or discernment. the instructor was blind to the realities of their position"
- +1 the idea is that experts can be unaware of how much they know or have forgotten what it's like to be a novice
- Doing a quick search, 606 hits for "Expert blind spot" 0 hits for "expert awareness gap" -- I'm worried that we're creating local jargon. Do we at least have a link (in text) to the bad-wrong literature in case they're interested? I think the PR addresses this pretty nicely +1+1 ... check it out and see what you think?
- The PR adds that the blind spot is the common term
- Awesome. That was my concern.
- Also! Rayna added a page for learner tweets and other contributions. Check out https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1067
- January meeting will use "placeholder" date (Jan 16).
- Trainer Community leadership planning has begun! An inaugural panel will establish an elections process within the next 3-6 months, and will begin to take on some roles as possible/practical. We have reached out to several people to ensure broad representation, but all Trainers are welcome to participate as we establish these processes. If you want to be involved, contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org).
- More than just curriculum maintaince. Procedural things and community building needs leadership
- Long-term survey open until 20-Dec: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/carpentrieslongtermassessment
- Check out the opportunities for in-person training events in the USA, February and March 2020.  (4 sites, many date options - read the email from Maneesha)

### Topic of the month: Instructor Trainer Application Review
- Proposed scoring: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CVeFrv4UcwM5VtokYj6njHb9Vm-HzZSERONDrPC3388/edit?usp=sharing

***How should we handle personal acquaintance in the review process?***
- How do distinguish personal aquaintance versus someone you are have advocated to be in the program?
- Same lively discussion from this morning. People are used to conflict of interest. This is valid, but the knowledge that people have is valuable and useful.
- When hiring, it's okay if you know them because it's almsot more concerning if you don't know them because these communities are small. What is the line? Do you know them? Have you mentored them? Have you instructed them? If people that should get through aren't then there is a problem with the rubric. Veto could be useful if they don't have the values or the experience.
- The goal is to expand, create more opportunity for trainers, possibly not an opportunity where a mistake is high risk; better to be inclusive over exclusive.

***What are the limiting factors?***
- Capacity, there is more interest than we have capacity
- Basic filter who "get it" to some extent, will be healthy contributors to the community in a leadership role
- Rubric is to help make sure what's fair & transparent to make the decisions we need to make based on capacity
- Need to make it clear that these aren't job descriptinos
- Communities are community from two different places.

***How should we balance rubric scores with subjective evaluation?***
- oes the rubric reflect the goals and vision of the EC?
- Can it be a two step proces? First, who would we take if we could take everyone? Then use a second step to balance competing stages.
- Maybe use annonymous system to remove names and biases
- Can you set up a waiting list? We have been declining and asking if they want to know when the next opportunities.
- Need to be aware that 1 new trainer isn't enough to build community.
- Is there any input from regional coordinatores? It would be good to get their input
- Blog post about the application.
- Bins for applicants from large, stable communities and from smaller, new communities
- Karen will follow up with email with summary and plan

### Topic of the month: Gratitudes! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/carpentries-gratitudes-series/
- Brian
- Murray: Thankful for the excellent other trainers (Arin, Jonah, Mik) in NZ and a shared goal for the national community. Also thankful for the community that stepped in and supported me at the last second to take over for my DC workshops when I had to pull out
- Rayna: Greg for brining me in and training me. Erin, Karen, and Christina for spending lots of time on curriculum maintianace. All the trainers who share their knowledge at meetings. All my co-instructors.
- Amy: Karen Word and Rayna Harris for being great co-instructors at instructor training; everyone who spends time maintainin the curriculum or making suggestions and submitting issues instead of just saying "wouldn't it be nice/better/awesome if the curriculum was like this?" Karen Word for coming to train with me at Stanford SO many times!
- Mark
- Apreciate the senior instructors, mentors, maintainers,staff, etc who allow for growth, new ideas, and a pathway for change. They are open to new ideas, new stratigies and are not quick to shut down those ideas. It can be very easy to say that is "The way we do it" and not be open. That openness makes it a welcoming environment for new people to get engaged.
- Darya
- Belinda Weaver, Brian Ballsun-Stanton, Paula Martinez for serving as hubs of the Australian community, and sounding boards for debriefing and training ideas
- Greg for his mentorship early on to me as an instructor
- The ARDC people (Tom, Matthias, Liz, and many, many others), for supporting the Carpentries down under nationally
- Damien Irving for being our representative. Able to set up pages and accomodate random requests for surveys/stuff at odd hours and short notice
- All of the trainers, librarians, support staff and learners who have made our training (at both Carpentries events and as part of ResBazes) possible and incredibly rewarding
- Sarah: Danielle & Amy who were my co-instructors for my first two training events. Anelda & Allegra for encouraging me to apply to become a trainer. Brian for our extra trainer training discussion session on the week it was cancelled.
- Karen: This morning I thanked Christina and Rayna, so this afternoon I am going to express gratitude to the Australian Trainer community for coming together and helping steer us towards stronger regional inclusivity, particularly Brian and Darya but also Benjamin and so many others. It is wonderful to see that community coming together
- Chris
- Arindam
- I am thankful to so many people in the instructor trainer community, so The Carpentries above all to start with, then all our trainers in NZ, @Murray, @Jonah, all my instructor training group (@Sarah Stevens, @Marco, @Serah, @C Tobin Magie; recently @Kari, @Erin, @Paula, @Eric, @Sher! .... this keeps expanding exponentially. Deeply grateful to you all! What a team we are!
