# Trainer Meeting

## Meeting 1

Trainer meeting, March 7, 2019 UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190307T14

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

* Juliane Schneider (post)
* Sarah Stevens (post)
* Gerg Wislon (post) - what Sarah said...

**Others attending**

* Aleks Nenadic
* Kari L. Jordan
* Rayna Harris
* Maneesha Sane
* Laura Acion
* Mark Laufersweiler
* Sher!
* Ana Costa Conrado (late, sorry)

### Training Discussion

Tip: general impression, highs and lows, anything useful for others to know

Juliane and Serah's workshop. 
* Serah's first time. 
* Some city-wide internet difficulties due to  weather. Used zoom without video. Etherpad functionality lost on day 2, but it was very useful and enjoyable when it was working. 
* Teaching exercising made a noticable impact on student engagement.  

Juliane and Chris? previous workshop, have over 60% checkout completion. 

Sarah Stevens and GW 
* Sarah's first time teaching online. 
	* High: sharing shared exeriences.  
	* Low: some rough edges due to first time. 
* New goal: work on inclusive langage by minimzing use of "guys" rather than something like "folks". 
* GW says Sarah was excellent. 
* Noticed a lack of continutiy; suggested smoothing of the lesson. 
* Priority for this year is replacing Etherpad, which is a software that is no longer supported and is lacking functionality for concept maps. 
* Lots of participation and ethusiams from group and solo participants. 
* Comment: a spring push for revising cirriculum is tentatively planned and the goal is to only fix minor issues. fixing continutiy is a good thing. 

Mark: looking forward to teaching next week. All good to go. 

Greg and Amy: were supposed to teach two 1 day events in Toronto (Carpentry inspired) but weather did not permit. 
* Confident that a 1 day can have the same effect on teaching practice. Goal should be to anlyze what teaching practices get adopted. Could separate out ____ from _____. Could deliver more training with the same impact and effort. 
	* Comment: if we explore a 1 day format, should we keep it as 1 day lecture/learn and 1 day do?
	* Comment: Another reason to explor the 1 day format is because of the divergence of the "mechanics for workshops" is not a one size fits all for SWC, LC, DC. Could customize activites more for day 2. 

### Announcements 

* Help wanted for teaching demos! https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
	* now that we have lots of trainers, we should be able to cover this. at one point there was a quota of 1 per quarter. https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html
* Want to schedule your own teaching demo time slot? We are now piloting the use of Calendly to assist with this. If you'd like to help test out the system (and schedule a demo!) contact Karen krword@carpentries.org
	* due to some conversations on slack, some of the current time slots do not work for trainers. contact Karen if you would like to set up your own if the time slot doesnt' work for you. 
* We're thinking about trainer status (e.g. active, emeritus). Fill out this form to generate more discussion later https://goo.gl/forms/qSqrtRMj6B5Na3gc2
	* for trainers who want to step back from training for a brief timeperiod or forever, we want to help and accomdate that. we want to explore your ideas for the best way to do this. 
* Would like 1 more reviewer for Open Instructor Training applications, reading free-response questions for subjective evaluation only, 5-10 applications every 2 weeks. Contact Karen krword@carpentries.org
	* assistance needed. pleas contact Karen if you can assist
* In-person trainings: please emphasize group code entry in applications (wrong code is better than no code!) -- this keeps people from being unnecessarily reviewed in our Open training pool.
	* The way application process works, there is an application leaners fill out. this puts them in our system and allows up to start tracking them. Codes are given to member sites. Open trainess lack codes. 
	* Question, what is the best way to learn more about stats regarding instructor completion. General numbers. it's a few months out of date. Will share soon
	* Sher is happy to assist in helping the organizing and coordinating the logistics needed for in-person workshops 
* Library Carpentry checkout: now (well, tomorrow) with badging! woohoo!
	* fine tuning the system to record badges. unrolling this new system tomorrow or over the weekend. 
* Revisions to the Code of Conduct Documentation including a tl;dr: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html
	* please read the changes! lots of effort went into this? 
* RStudio Instructor Training program has launched: https://blog.rstudio.com/2019/02/28/rstudio-instructor-training/
	* primarily aimed at people who are offering teaching in their workplace or contract based. Day 1 is pedagogy, Day 2 is aimed at making sure people do not teach out-of-date practices. want to make it so people are confident they are getting high quality teaching. Carpentires trainers will be given a voucher(only need to answer a few technical questions - to ensure they are up to date with the technology) to be certified. Certification will allow you to be paid to teach (corporate training). Great for professional development.
* Early next week, Maneesha will share the calendar for May - August. 

### Topic of the Month: Badges for Lesson Programs

History: 

- Once upon a time, only Software Carpentry; then Data Carpentry, recently Library Carpentry
- In the past, then, you got a "SWC" badge to teach (b/c that was it)
- Once DC was launched and of a certain size, SWC instructors could go through a short orientation (w/ Tracy) and get a DC badge
- Now, with the addition of Library Carpentry, can be badged that way.
- Used to have to do two demos to get badged for both programs

Now:

- You get ONE badge, for the demo that you did
- But you can teach any Carpentries workshops you want or feel confortable with

Comments and questions. 
- badge is based on the lesson they used for demo. Staff and other leaderships trust that they will select what they are qualified for. Not everyone keeps their expertise up to date in AMY. 
- In discussions regarding have a unviersal "Carpentries"badge, some people want to identify strongly with one or the other, however others want a Carpentires badge. . 
- TTT is more about can you teach not what you teach self selection appears to be working quite well. 
- Some inconsisteny with badges - a badge might be given if based on the lesson PR if the demo lesson isn't reported. 
- From a new trainer, there was some confusion/wonder regarding which badge and what that meant for ability to teach. 
- I think the desire for a universal badge will increase more and more when people joining the community post-merger +1
- A stronger devide in the community is R versus python
- A universal badge would be simpler.
- the pedagoy/inclusivity/motivation is what unifies us. so a universal badge makes sense. then they could decorate that badge if identiy if important. unity across the domains is inclusive. +1 +1
- TTT is about the pedagody not the lessons. Let people self identify under a general badge. But can also bring in heiractical or historical sentiments that are not helpful. 

End goal is that badging is 1) transparent and clear 2) and useful. 

If we slim training to 1 day where there is more of a separation of pedagoy and lesson-specific mechanism, this could become more important. Developing a community for imrporved discourse. -> Often why badges rates are low because some people are just there for professional development. 

## Meeting 2

Trainer Meeting March 7, 2019 UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time:  See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190307T22

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

* Eric Jankowski (pre)
* Kate Hertweck (pre)
* Elizabeth Williams (pre)

**Others attending**

* Tracy Teal
* Benjamin Schwessinger (might listen in on the bike ride to work after kids drop off)
* Brian Ballsun-Stanton
* Chris PU Njoku
* Karen Word


### Training Discussion

Eric: planning to teach with Neil, who has taught a few times. Still fleshing out concrete structure. 
* Q: When do they know who is in the class? Sher will send pre-assessment data soon. Maybe 1 week before
* Q: Can we route local people to instructor training. They need to go through the application process.
* Q: What is the shadaowing? Do they only shadow or can they participate? 
	* Most people just shadow but some do engage more. Note remeber to reminde trainers about new-trainers that may be present to shadow and event.  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WtiSLbpF6m4uUi-xIhThwF4wodR6UzwDJbR49aEnTvg/edit#gid=396821285

Kate: online with Jeff and inperson with Ariel. Will be teaching afternoons to ease. Gold membership at the Hutch. Hoping for half UW and half Hutch soon... new experiment for how to broaden reach and extend support

Elizabeth: teaching in person with Karen. looking forward to planning to teach and revisiting the cirriculum. 

Tracy teaching in April before CSV conf. 
* Q: Is there an event to shawdow before then? and how do I sign up?
* A: add yourself to the sign up sheet https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WtiSLbpF6m4uUi-xIhThwF4wodR6UzwDJbR49aEnTvg/edit#gid=396821285

karen: 
* has notices that the a community hasn't developed natually at UC Davis. 
* Hoping to group people by teaching demo to hopefully encourage more workshops after TTT. 
* Advice for building community post workshop, would love to hear about it. 

Kate: There are lots of good email tempates for demos and stuff, where would be a good place to share
* A: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/email_templates_trainers.html
* Elizabeth is developing a workflow for relaying infromation to member organizations regarding who has completed checkout etc. 

Chris:  I shadowed a workshop but hadn't been able to do online demo owing to internet connectivity issues.  How does this affect my intention to buy-in the library in my workplace to host an in-person workshop where I can feature with other person in local Africa?  I'd started efforts in this direction and I'm hopeful of positive response
* A: we are hiring a new regional coordinator and hopefully we can develope solutions for overcoming technical issues. High on the priority list. Great.

How are lesson contributions tracked for people going through training?
* They send a link to checkout. That is entered in AMY. 
* There is a typo in the handbook. Kate will submit a PR https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/tracking_checkout.html#tracking-lesson-contributions. 
* Also, there is a form for instructors to complete rather than an email. Tracy will create an issue. 

### Announcements 

* Help wanted for teaching demos! https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
* Want to schedule your own teaching demo time slot? We are now piloting the use of Calendly to assist with this. If you'd like to help test out the system (and schedule a demo!) contact Karen krword@carpentries.org
	* karen just piloted a calenly meeting app and is taking volunteers
	* Brian and Rayna will volunteer to be beta testers
* We're thinking about trainer status (e.g. active, emeritus). Fill out this form to generate more discussion later https://goo.gl/forms/qSqrtRMj6B5Na3gc2
	* your feedback wanted! seeking information about best practices for recognizing trainers who need to step back part time or completely.  I have difficulty with Q1. Do I assume I'm one stepping out?
* Would like 1 more reviewer for Open Instructor Training applications, reading free-response questions for subjective evaluation only, 5-10 applications every 2 weeks. Contact Karen krword@carpentries.org
	* panel to review rolling enrollment for open instructor traininer. help wanted. +/3 how great do the answers look. the goal is to reduce the wait time. trying to evaluate our capactiy for this. wait times are highly variable. highly ranked applications do tend to have shorter wait times. should be about a few months for average scores and then find and event. There are a few that are years old that need to bee rejected. a few are a year old with low rankings. have automated some of the process to assign points for certain factors like from a non-R1 instition. 
* In-person trainings: please emphasize group code entry in applications (wrong code is better than no code!) -- this keeps people from being unnecessarily reviewed in our Open training pool.
	* there is a problem with group codes. because the lack of a group code routes people to in person training.
* Library Carpentry checkout: now (well, tommorrow) with badging!

### Topic of the Month: Badges for Lesson Programs

(History as above)

Comment: at one point are trainees told that they can login to Amy to indicate their preference. 
* Could this be done in an email tempate after training? 
* Really need to better convey this. Could be added in an automated email.  
* Does the choice of lesson for demo  not already indicate the preference?
* Could be added at any stage. After demo, after TTT. 

Old vs new badges -- do old badges create a status symbol? 
* Maybe keep all so they can continue to select  
* I go with Eric's idea of one Carpentries badge while one can lean towards the lesson of one's choice.

Where do the badges show up in pulic? 
* not anywhere, only staff see it. 
* Simplifying things is good. 

Q: what are the technical and social challenges. 
* Technologically, it could be added before the next release by adding some new logic. There is a sense that LC has a strong tie to their badge. 
* We could make it so that there lesson-specific badges are optional. Socially, seems like we are already there. 

option: One badge, but let folks identify affiliation via lessons they’re comfortable teaching. 
* We could even have both the badge and the checked boxes listed on the certificate. 

Perhaps the thought of "ribbons on the badge?" (in terms of language).

on the one hand, if people want to teach two demos to get more feedback and get two badges. 
* This may be an option. Person who feels comfortable doing 2 or all 3 demos can do so and get the respective badges.

If things are changed with badges, would be prudent to think ahead about pull requests needed to make sure one button can be pushed and everything is consistent

