# Trainer meeting, July 2  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200702T14

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Karen
- Elizabeth (online trainiing 7/13-14) with Eric Jankowski

****Others attending****
Name (pronouns) contact (optional)
 Angelique van Rensburg, angelique@carpentries.org(she/her/hers)
 Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
Mike Trizna (he/him/his), triznam@si.edu
Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), sarah.stevens@wisc.edu
Karen Word (she/her/hers)
Zac Painter, zwp@stanford.edu
Serah Rono (she/her/hers), serah@carpentries.org
Maneesha Sane (any pronouns), maneesha@carpentries.org
Sue McClatchy (she/her/hers), smcclatchy1@gmail.com
Sher! (she/her/hers), sheraaron@carpentries.org
Elizabeth (any pronouns), ewilliams@carpentries.org
Ana Costa





Apologies:
Aleks Nenadic, a.nenadic@manchester.ac.uk (clash with the school run :-()

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
Karen and Jeff taught a standard online workshop. Jeff teaches calmly and linearly, and Karen's style is different (mostly excitement) - kept to time, covered most activities, and successfully. Was a smooth workshop
people's cameras were off during the main session, and Jeff and Karen didn't ask people to turn them on. Learning from others that asking might be a violation of privacy
during breakouts, everyone had their cameras on. Karen hopped fromm breakout to breakout, and could recognise people.
Required trust, that people were engaged. Comms in the Etherpad were helpful / reassuring. Turned out better than Karen thought it would.
Thoughts on asking people to share their cameras?
Sarah S.: a month ago, in a workshop, 50% of people had cameras off (and were very apologetic about it throughout once Sarah expressed it's great to see people's faces ).
Sarah has been encouraging instructors to ask folks to respond when they are following along instead of only asking for them to ask questions or let them know if they are having trouble Then you get some feedback even if you can’t see them. And know that some portion of the room is following along at least. Examples: "Please type I've got R studio open if you've opened Rstudio and see what I see" or "Please type I've got the data or something about the data in chat if you've downloaded the data, unzipped it, and moved it to your folder"
Sher!: taught one with Sarah Brown in mid-June where people had cameras off for the first morning. Put in a request for cameras to be turned on, and it was 50-50 afterward
Margareth: not possible to have video on in Ethiopia - bandwidth issues
Sue: having camera on is no guarantee that people are concentrating. It falls on us to engage our audience more often via chat, collaborative documents like Etherpad, etc. Also important to articulate how difficult it is to know how the audience is faring - encourage them to 'overcommunicate'
Virtual backgrounds are also a good option for people nervous about their surroundings
Maneesha: did a training a bit ago where people were back in their offices with masks on, and so they kept their cameras off. This (cameras off) might continue even after people stop working from home in the coming days
Margareth: Internet will be off in Ethiopia from Monday because of security issues, which might affect an upcoming training in the week of July 20
have had to prepare videos in advance based off of Carpentries resources, although co-trainers are not Carpentries trainers
Karen: appreciates this, Carpentries is thinking about innovations, hybrid versions of delivering workshops in a way that makes sense for specific contexts - hopes it all works out
Margareth will report back after
Elizabeth and Eric: Eric has shared lots from his experiences as a seasoned instructor, that has been very helpful as Elizabeth preps for an upcoming training. Karen says being vocal about areas one is struggling with as they prep is good practice.
Announcements (Karen)
Coming switch to Google Form for teaching demo reports (instead of emailing checkout).https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeNiTE1NmNWcavQNwrS76N7Cpmb75ZXnZwsq-Zeh-z3VyBxFw/viewform
after a demo, demo hosts are currently required to send an email to checkout@carpentries.org
to standardise practices across The Carpentries, trainers will soon start filling a google form instead, similar to how discussion hosts currently do it
this will allow Carpentries Core Team to analyse info from demo sessions periodically i.e. how many people are copy-pasting rather than live-coding, etc
info communicated via email will still be collected via the form. Question about no-shows might / might not remain - we currently don't use this info, but is great in case we want to enforce accountability - opinions welcome
Share feedback on edits that should go into the form before it goes live as soon as possible - share with Karen Word.
Feedback from Mike Trizna: Might be better to ask how many no-shows or last-minute cancellations to keep things quantitative.
Sarah S: Random observation from teaching demos, folks have naturally started pretending they are teaching in zoom instead of before when they would pretend like they are teaching in person.  Angelique has noticed this too.
Preparing for Trainer Agreement updates. Looking to add flexibility & clarify ambiguous/unstated guidelines. Will use 2nd meeting time slot this month ('placeholder' on the calendar) to discuss new draft agreement, with options for asynchronous review.
a number of people reached out last year and asked for custom trainer agreements as the standard one didn't suit their contexts
want to be more specific about ways people can be actively involved, allow room for people to be part of a Trainers council (coming soon), incorporate infor about involvement in Bonus Modules, etc
Karen will draft something that encompasses all the needs Karen has identified over time, and share it with Trainer leadership first, then with community before the changes are formalised and adopted for the next year
New round of Trainer Training will start in September
Let Karen know if you would like to be involved with the process
Updates on Trainers Leadership group formation & activities! Four main areas of focus that this group has identified and is currently working on:
- Regional Hub development
community building at a local level. Introductions have been done, they will work with the Community Development Team
- Curriculum maintenance
Sarah Brown is now onboard and leading this, alongside Christina nad Tim Dennis
- Governance & elections planning
Kelly working with Mark Laufersweiler for a structure around governace and elections
- Asynchronous community engagement
this needs lots of input from everyone, please get in touch if you would like to get involved
how do we support and effectivel engage people who are not able to join in / come to meetings?
Planning ahead for next curriculum update (to commence ~end of 2020). Sarah Brown has set up these:
https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/projects/3
https://www.zotero.org/groups/1163904/carpentries/library
Context: when Tim first became an instructor, he thought about bibliography and Zotero and Carpentries resources - worth looking at to see if anything comes out of this work
To join this work, click in the Zotero link above
We are looking for non-US English speakers to please help us choose more universal language for our praise question: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1052#issuecomment-652813029. Add your comments directly to the issue.

### Topic of the month: Online Training Recommendations V2!
Instructor survey preliminary report (n = 40 but pseudoreplication):https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UAfKr8bK8E3f4hYGHpeRlVVh8RISg2ypcT0h3iCPxI0/edit?usp=sharing
Proposed updates:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yleW_1X-0s93yoyQLZiNF-JTqtVmie6cH7xaICVEaY0/edit?usp=sharing
Online training seems to be going well - we haven't heard of burnout as much, yet. Kelly and Karen have put together a preliminary report,see above. Need to figure out the pseudoreplication problem - can't currently capture what specific workshops people taught
we are not scaring instructors away with our current approach :)
reports of people abandoning breakouts as some participants drop off at that point
59% don't think curriculum needs to change to support teaching online
lots of coments around challenges in running exercises
time runs out, need for more suitable exercises for an online setting
those who go to breakouts have great things to say about it
On updates to be made
Making some changes around chronological flow of workshops. Add comments on proposed updates - anyone can add comments.
Need to address accessibility too. We will be emphasizing that people check with participants ahead of their workshops to find out what accessibility needs they have
Need to offer formal recommendations about captioning
how to use breakout rooms, private messaging and waiting rooms
overwhelmingly positive feedback on use of breakout rooms, will be adding recommendations around these
Mike: are we getting more requests from Members for centrally-organised workshops?
Member orgs getting more instructors (supporting instructors are a bonus now)
Members were recently surveyed on their approach to online trainings, and got mixed feedback
Elizabeth: anecdotal impressions: some members are excited about new Carpentries programs in an online setting, using recommendations from The Carpentries. We might benefit from a regional study as some Members in some regions / countries are strongly pro in-person workshops.
Question The Carpentries is actively thinking about: how and when we will determine we are at the end of the pilot phase of the Online Workshops Project. No answers yet, we will be updating in the coming weeks.


# Trainer Meeting July 2, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200702T22

Training discussion (pre and post):

Christina K (only if time)
Karen W
Brian Ballsun-Stanton  (Pre for the 20th so can skip till placeholder)
Sarah Brown
Angela Li (post, I forgot about it! https://uc-carpentries.github.io/2020-06-08-ttt-uchicago/)

Others attending
Angela Li
Karen Word
Murray Cadzow
Masami Yamaguchi
Liz Stokes
Jeff Oliver
Paula Andrea Martinez
Sara King
Sarah Brown (she/her)
Brian Ballsun-Stanton
Arindam Basu


Agenda:
Introductions
Pre and post workshop discussion
Announcements
Coming switch to Google Form for teaching demo reports (instead of emailing checkout). https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeNiTE1NmNWcavQNwrS76N7Cpmb75ZXnZwsq-Zeh-z3VyBxFw/viewform
Preparing for Trainer Agreement updates. Looking to add flexibility & clarify ambiguous/unstated guidelines. Will use 2nd meeting time slot this month ('placeholder' on the calendar) to discuss new draft agreement, with options for asynchronous review.
Updates on Trainers Leadership group formation & activities!
- Regional Hub development
- Curriculum maintenance
- Governance & elections planning
- Asynchronous community engagement
Planning ahead for next curriculum update (to commence ~end of 2020)
https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/projects/3
https://www.zotero.org/groups/1163904/carpentries/library
Non-US English speakers: please help us choose more universal language for our praise question:https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1052#issuecomment-652813029

Topic of the month: Online Training Recommendations V2!
Instructor survey preliminary report (n = 40 but pseudoreplication): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UAfKr8bK8E3f4hYGHpeRlVVh8RISg2ypcT0h3iCPxI0/edit?usp=sharing
Proposed updates:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yleW_1X-0s93yoyQLZiNF-JTqtVmie6cH7xaICVEaY0/edit?usp=sharing

Notes:
pre/post
Brian (pre)
8x1.5 hour starting July 20 - Open Call
welcome to additional attendees via: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/online-instructor-training-july-20-aug-11-2020-australia-east-std-time-tickets-112144314664
Karen will help for open training slots
2x week for 4 weeks (splitting at breaks)
opportunities
more homework
better spaced repetition
more dynamic co-teaching instead of resting while observing
Karen & Jeffrey (post)
nice that IT is built for online
balance of time for depth & covering enough
least time challenged
did not ask for video, cameras typically off in main room, but on in breakouts
Sarah Brown(post)
used cuckoo timer for exercises. The ones that used it really liked having the warning.
Didn't have many videos on for the first half.
Used slides from Sher
Interesting to see how people customise the slides and think about it.
Very small group. 10 people with one person leaving midway
Most teaching practice in pairs.
Highly effective for time management
Less feedback, but more time.
Many community college faculty
More expected to actually teach than our usual cohort
Questions were in-depth, but appreciated reframing and recontextualising
From Brian: Sarah found some url issues with the exporter. I'm working up a PR to fix. If there are any other issues, let Brian know?
Angela(post)
planned in person moved online,
most knew one another, but a few external people, would have notified
used google doc
proposal remove grit due to inclusion issues?
submit an issue, esp with a reference
used Christina's notes: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/17UH-jKiCyLRU3BQ6OABYejVULysKcrxl
Where to aggregate ways people customize? Discourse?
Announcements
Coming switch to Google Form for teaching demo reports (instead of emailing checkout).https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeNiTE1NmNWcavQNwrS76N7Cpmb75ZXnZwsq-Zeh-z3VyBxFw/viewform
to match the community discussion process
collect assessment data
only opportunity for summative assessment
repeat request: to gather feedback on why people repreat, for the sense of what reasons and to track learning
tracking no shows:
what is a no show?
Perfrmance assessment
will add episdode vs lesson
feedback on trainees' feedback on others
sometimes this demonstrates more of what they learn
Question: why optional?
Karen iwll check on what is there; required are necessary for procedure of checkout
Preparing for Trainer Agreement updates. Looking to add flexibility & clarify ambiguous/unstated guidelines. Will use 2nd meeting time slot this month ('placeholder' on the calendar) to discuss new draft agreement, with options for asynchronous review.
goal is more options than last year
last year nearly all custom requests were honored
process:
core team
trainer leadership
all trainers
approval and enactment
Updates on Trainers Leadership group formation & activities!
Goals: ultimately an elected leadership panel
So far: several meetings, broken into 4 different areas
Regional Hub development(Brian & Danielle)
in touch with Serah Rono
Curriculum maintenance(Sarah Brown & Tim Denis)
Governance & elections planning (Mark L & Kelly Barnes)
Asynchronous community engagement (Arin & Jessica)
Planning ahead for next curriculum update (to commence ~end of 2020)
https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/projects/3
check it out, will use this for proposing trainer meeting topics
first column highlights "easy" to implement changes, if you have time (grouped by episode)
Thanks so much for taking the time to organize this, Sarah!
https://www.zotero.org/groups/1163904/carpentries/library
made a while back, reactivating
Non-US English speakers: please help us choose more universal language for our praise question:https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1052#issuecomment-652813029

Topic of the month: Online Training Recommendations V2!
Instructor survey preliminary report (n = 40 but pseudoreplication):https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UAfKr8bK8E3f4hYGHpeRlVVh8RISg2ypcT0h3iCPxI0/edit?usp=sharing
so far, teaching online is working
overwhelmingly willing to teach again
Proposed updates:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yleW_1X-0s93yoyQLZiNF-JTqtVmie6cH7xaICVEaY0/edit?usp=sharing
gathering info from survey + blog posts etc to proposed updates
reorganizing into chronological from thematic
also many small changes, noted on discourse
accessibility
emphasize in preworkshop e-mail
captioning?
accomodations
managing disruptions
recommend the use of breakouts
even though it's a lot of work
requires reworking exercises
should we pose to maintainers a possible influx of exercise PRs
EC considering end of pilot phase
comment on the document
Christina: Can there be a 1 page visual summary?
possibly checklist with links
