# Trainer meeting (informal), April 16, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200416T14


****Attendees****
- Kari L. Jordan
- Laura Acion
- Bianca Peterson
- Toby Hodges
- Angelique van Rensburg
- Sarah Brown
- Lex Nederbragt
- François Michonneau
- Maneesha Sane
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Karen Word
- Sarah Stevens
- Pao Corrales
- Angela Li
- Aleks Nenadic
- Mark Laufersweiler

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topics (what do you want to talk about?)
- Guidelines for dealing with disruptive participants when teaching online (Toby)
- Has anyone experienced?
- Rare events that we should prepare for. there's room for a discussion of nuances of how we use breakout rooms. create a few extra breakout rooms. make sure you've got a good team of helpers - they can help with breakout rooms and managing the call/workshop
- re: using breakout rooms. whether you can create extra rooms on the fly depends on how you set them up initially
- would this be a code of conduct issue as well? can fall a bit on the borderline - these tend to be the things people most worry about because they're grey areas.
- Good idea to check local institution policies too and how they compare to Carpentries code of conduct
- Do you have ideas?
- The Zoom call host has the power to remove someone from a call. could do this and then contact them to discuss
- But people removed by host cannot reconnect to call
- BBS: (later) you can control that setting in your advanced settings in your zoom profile
- It might be easier to do this as workshop host rather than instructor. handle it on the side while instructor concentrates on teaching
- Can invite them to a breakout room with you/a helper/co-instructor
- Or try to break for an exercise where other particpants are distributed to breakouts, leaving you the space to chat "one-on-one" with the person in question
- Though, if anyone drops and returns they would hear that conversation true, but maybe then you use an extra breakout? the waiting room sounds like a good place for this?
- If the waiting room was configured for the meeting prior to the start of the meeting,
- For carpentries rooms:
- Possibly create 1 time meetings with specific host/co-host/alternate hosts
- Add waiting rooms on those?

What can we recommend for people to prepare for this type of event?
- Before the call
- Enable waiting room for call
- Make an extra breakout room or two
- Make sure you have plenty of helpers
- During the call
- Assign your co-instructor(s) and (perhaps) your helpers as Co-host on the Zoom call
- If you're the co-instructor, help the instructor by trying to handle these things so they can focus on teaching
- As a last resort, remove someone from the call
- (from Brian) How can we prepare instructors for this in instructor training
- (we moved on before answering this, to make sure we gave enough time to other points in the agenda)
- How are we adjusting our social norms in teaching in light of COVID-19? i.e not asking people to turn on their video, givi
- Recognise that we do need to be a bit more lenient but it's still important that trainees attend as much of the training as possible (all of it, ideally)
- Karen is available - contact her to discuss cases where people need to miss sections of the training
- Ask trainees to share their video but don't push people
- Hard to keep track of when someone disengaged and when exactly they returned - difficult to know exactly how much people have missed.
- Be cognicent of Zoom fatigue for participants
- There have been a lot of questions about whether we'll change the format of instructor training (away from two full days) - Instructor Training committee will be discussing options today
- Aleks debrief from first online workshop:
- So far so good
- Covered spreadsheets; OpenRefine so far
- Just started Python (end of day 1)
- No problems with first two lessons
- Had a troubleshooting session for Zoom & Python setup beforehand. still had a few issues but all sorted by day 1 lunchtime
- Had a couple of Zoom sessions with instructors & helpers beforehand - important to be aware that we are all more experienced with Zoom than most!
- Host institute wanted us to use Blackboard but switched to Zoom at the last miniute. (read David Perez-Suarez's reflections on teaching with Blackboard here: https://blogs.ucl.ac.uk/research-software-development/our-first-ever-git-workshop-online/)
- Tried to have a few more helpers, expected to go a little slower but actually think we covered about the same as we would've done in-person
- Asked people to use non-verbal feedback buttons for sticky notes; had helpers monitoring the chat to answer questions; set one of the helpers/co-instructors as Zoom call host - generally made sure the instructor didn't need to concentrate on anything but the teaching
- Ideally I should have two screens for teaching, and so should learners (especially if they don't have a big screen) but a lot of people don't have this setup available so tried to go slowly and repeat things
- If you do have two screens, the zoom use dual monitors separates the screen sharing from the participants and controls
- Sarah S: We recommended… Best: two screens/large screen, 2nd best: two devices, last resort: split up your screen with zoom and software on one screen
- Something I discovered also is switching back and forth between screen sharing and not screen sharing pops the panels in and out of zoom for me, which meant I had to reorg the screen each time I started screen sharing again
- Had 15 attendees as the cap
- Sarah S report:
- Giving participants only one way to give feedback may add
- +1 Aleks, Sarah B,
- Thanks for sharing

****Some ideas from Karen:****
- What might a great "bad example" video include? :) (Maybe a few ideas here: http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2020-bad-online-talk.html)
- What's important in turning the new (https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/04/taking-your-carpentries-workshop-online/) recommendations (https://carpentries.org/online-workshop-recommendations/) and updates)into a short training module for current instructors? What kinds of 'hands-on' activities should be included?
- What should be prioritized in updating recommendations?
- Tell us about your local efforts, big and small! (shining example here https://eldoce.tv/opinion/metadocencia-clase-virtual-cuarentena-coronavirus-la-felicidad-compartida-se-multiplica-la-pena-compartida-disminuye_97495 -- amazing work Laura, Paola, and Nico!)
- We have an English version of this here in the shape of a MOSS funding application that we will be submitting by the end of Friday 17th anywhere in the world and upon which feedback is very welcome: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XSxrEib3DQgZ7GOLHeAQRrJn0iu-mswlmdR3PEt3H5s/edit?usp=sharing
- Aleks N's experience from her first online DC teaching experience:
-- Standard video conferencing code of conduct
- Use headset
- Use video
- Mute yourself
- Rename yourself
- Have breaks often or longer (people may have caring responsibilities)
- Have more helpers to hand
- Expect not to be able to cover as much of the material as under normal circumstances
- Not sure what would happen if people missed some bits if they would be able to come back
- We used zoom non-verbal feedback for stickies
- The person who is teaching - should not be the host, helpers/co-host to monitor chat and feedback
- 2 screen for teaching and learning if possible (e.g. tablet, mobile phone)
- Have trouble shooting sessions (with helpers/instructors and participants!) ahead and before the session - even more important than before!
- A bit slower to start with Python despite all the prep

# Trainer Meeting (informal) April 16, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200416T22

****Attendees****
- Masami
- Murray Cadzow
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Christina Koch
- Karen Word
- Liz Stokes
- Paula Andrea Martinez

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topics (what do you want to talk about?)
****Some ideas from Karen:****
- What might a great "bad example" video include? :) (Maybe a few ideas here: http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2020-bad-online-talk.html)
- Recorded with OBS, shows instructor ignoring chat and ignoring backchannel
- What's important in turning the new (https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/04/taking-your-carpentries-workshop-online/) recommendations (https://carpentries.org/online-workshop-recommendations/) and updates)into a short training module for current instructors? What kinds of 'hands-on' activities should be included?
- What should be prioritized in updating recommendations?
- Tell us about your local efforts, big and small! (shining example here https://eldoce.tv/opinion/metadocencia-clase-virtual-cuarentena-coronavirus-la-felicidad-compartida-se-multiplica-la-pena-compartida-disminuye_97495 -- amazing work Laura, Paola, and Nico!)
- We have an English version of this here in the shape of a MOSS funding application that we will be submitting by the end of Friday 17th anywhere in the world and upon which feedback is very welcome: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XSxrEib3DQgZ7GOLHeAQRrJn0iu-mswlmdR3PEt3H5s/edit?usp=sharing
- BBS: From my chat https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/G7A6ED1SA/p1587006679047700, how do we train and update our training to handle disruptions during the workshop. The kind that we recommend a "Let's take a break" as a defusing measure. Zoom's breakout rooms are awkward and I didn't have any good ideas at the time or in a chat with Toby
- Prior workshop there was a clear disruption and kicked out a person who was really behaving inappropriately. Can control if people who are kicked out are able to re-join.
- Second workshop, an IT person in the role of giving data management advice attended with an "axe to grind" -- saw trouble coming but couldn't just disinvite. Talking more and more. Sub-threshold but increasingly disruptive. Rake in the grass: directly contradicts tool recommendation. After the workshop, asked not to come back tomorrow. But how do we train people during an Instructor Training about where the line is and how to handle things on either side of the line?
- Darya's advice to have a helper in every breakout room is really important. Vital to keep things going.
- Maybe needed to have an extra breakout and invite this person there for a conversation
- Maybe just create one breakout and ask someone else to talk with him?
- For both of these - in instructor training (or extra modules), practice using these tools and backchannels
- Roleplay exercise (a-la 'challenger' role) where they practice being the host, identify whether issue has to do with content or delivery, calling things out in a friendly and respectful way.
- Christina: Dirk Collbry has done this really well w/ his cyber ambassadors curriculum (which is about communication + leadership)
- Bonus module in the works! Eventually.1st on online training, 2nd on coc/accessibility inclusion
- Maybe test in discussion sessions?
- Could try use onboarding similar to when new DC lessons come out
- One thing that might be quick/easy/essential is "act early". (what does early look like?)
- Also option of private conversations
- Ladder of escalation - see how it looks like when people are challenging you and how you can respond
- How does host role function, how is it specific to online training?
- Can see affinity groups forming to help role-play, learn something of a script. More practice becomes easier.
- Role to triage - formally designated. How do you prepare helpers?
- +1 to specifics, being very clear about expectations and what will happen. Maybe you lay the groundwork on what happens if we don't
- Suggest not using the word "challenge" - focus on disruption rather than power struggle. Impact on learning environment.
- Could we write a pro-forma, how to handle side conversations
- Sample Zoom CoC intro. Destigmatize breakout chat etc.
- "Acknowledging disruptions, introduce different modes eg follwing rabbitholes with helpers if a learner reallywants to pursue an avenue not aligned to the training agenda"
- Practicing roleplays where the host can practice recognising a) deviations b) distractions c) things related to the code of conduct and also practice responding to them, eg inviting the person into a breakout with a helper who can triage the problem.
- Acklnowleding the group responsibility of holding a shared space - learner responsibility
- Could add to IT where we discuss intro
- Things to prepare helpers with regarding their roles
- Beneficial to both attendees and instructors in that it is a set of potential instructions on how to handle these situations, esp for instructors who haven't had/thought of how to handle them
- What worked?
- Using an old established workshop goes much better.
- Best was weell-established workshop with specific audience.
- Being able to debrief in #trainers *really* helped Brian's mental processing after the fact
- Slack channel "enriched" cited being able to go in and leave, dropping in and out... misconception that training is "delivered" and "received". Thread to highlight in Zoom CoC is acknowledging shared responsibility of learners and hosts in being present as well as respectful of what is trying to be achieved.
- * enrichcop.slack.com

- Christina: workshop easier and harder. Imagined actual teaching would be harder. This was a Docker workshop using Carpentries incubator. Only 6 attendees, great for first foray.
- Reassuring that I can still teach
- Thought about delivering exercises with attention to screen management. Ended up, because wanted people to have chat open anyway, gave everyone a minute to set up screen with screen share and chat.
- Engaging people was hard. Wish they had planned one more breakout session to get people chatting with helpers
- Polls could improve this
- Very personalized material because had just rewritten the entire workshop.
- Brian had a bad experience with a poll -- nothing entered unless "submit" but +1 in shared document works well. Paula suggests sticking with 1 question.
- +1 in chat worked fine as sticky replacement
- Nonverbal feedback  also worked well and can be cleared by host.   Maybe we should use these in Instructor Training workshops to demo!
- Murray: How people teach mindset. Difficult to work out what the literature says. Lots of negatives out there, minimal impacts etc.
- Long term plan is to ball it in with motivation as opposed to featuring it so centrally. But many people cite this as being important
- New normal and work-from-home/ juggling-from-home mindset and identity are related -- this is a good time to reflect on the identity that we bring to a learning situation. Asking participants how mindset has adjusted to working from home, presented challenges that need to be overcome
