# Trainer meeting, August 6, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200806T14

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
Pao Corrales (she/her/hers)


****Others attending****
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Annika Rockenberger (she/her/hers)
- Bianca Peterson (she/her/hers)
- Kelly Barnes (she/her/hers)
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Karen Word (she/her/hers
- Kari L. Jordan (she/her/hers)
- Angelique van Rensburg (any pronoun)

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Afternoons, 4 half days, with Laura and Nico. In charge of general organization, following checklist step by step. Great opportunity to start growing the instructor community. Participants from different institutions. En Espanol!
- Paola teaching the first morning sessions. Also looking forward to the live coding sections. At least those will be her choices. Will be present in all sessions. Someone will always be taking notes etc.
- Draft for the schedule on the website. Changed one of the modules from the first day so it can fit better, into the second 4 hours. Maybe not changing the order but maybe push one from the end of one day to the beginning of the next.
- Translated the web page. Nico has some slides in Spanish from Peru training. We have some people that can manage in English, so we can point them to original material. Try to use the parts that are translated for the rest of the people. In case people are curious about more things, we are making some progress translating the Teaching Tech Together book [Greg Wilson].

### Announcements
- [side conversation about Zoom & chats: since the chat is ephemeral during the meeting, if there is a lot of content and Q&A in the chat it can be valuable to save and send to participants after the workshop. Chat can be saved to desktop in your own zoom room -- not clear where it goes or if it is saved for Carpentries rooms.]
- 4-half-day events: optimal schedule & other considerations?
- Should practice sessions be more spaced out?
- Short wrap-up sessions for every day, unsure about homework, though (Annika)
- Easy to lose focus during these online events. Easy to forget things. End of day wrap-up can be really important. Also helps to pull content back from breakout rooms as they can derail there a little. Lots of different things happening in there, didn't feel like there was enough time to pull all the threads together.
- Homework from Day 1-day 2. Really disliked this after a long day! Not sure about the time commitment of assigning homework, people probably don't do it. Taking it out, especially for the 4 day things?
- Mark: pedagogy of online workshops. Data Carpentry planning to add homework because spreading out week to week. Last thing we want to do is something before bed, but for week-longs might maintain connection when other things are competing for attention. Haven't really done this enough to think about it. At some point if we throw too many things into homework we're just going back to lecture/response mode. Told instructors to be guarded.
- Sarah: homework would be spread out more (or could be) so it wouldn't be so concentrated. Centrally vs self-organized workshops between day 3&4 vs preparing to teach days 2-3.
- Annika: 2 things at play. One might be culture. Norway really dislikes homework. Even Python workshops if we give homework (repeat or try on your own) people just won't do it. Cannot build on the assumption that people have done or read the things. Other concern is having much less capacity, even after a half day, just drained and will not read anything. Especially if it has to be read on the screen. Without COVID things might be different could go outside refresh and meet people. At this time every small assignment creates a lot of strain. Really want to take that away.
- Mark: Add on to that, work space & home space. Normally never wear shoes at home, but wear shoes to work. Now asking for homework invades home bubble.
- We could add time to How We Operate to review central/self-organized workshop
- Last half day... re-design to stand alone? A quick refresher for Instructors. What does it mean for me, highlight roles as host, how to use if it's not 2 certified instructors teaching, but introducing people to The Carpentries fresh.
- We get the most emails from our instructors about workshop websites. Every single workshop. Always like to cover that during instructor training.
- Incubator lesson on working with Jekyll/Gh-pages
- Could we sprinkle the lunch break (no longer necessary) into shorter breaks during the workshop?+1
- Bianca: observing another training, took short stretch breaks. During lockdown everyone sits too much, poor posture, this really affects your focus. Even 2-3 minutes makes a difference.+1  If we do stick to the 2 day schedule, is it possible to have the breaks at the same time? Putting the breaks at different times each day generates complaints. Also in the text there is an omission re library carpentry -- will PR.
- Angelique ran first IT online event in S Africa last week. Took every day literally split in half. Second day ended up shorter, didn't take break time into consideration. Worked well having 2 live coding on same day. Going in not knowing anything, then feedback, then ending with second session and debrief, stickies were great. Went fine. Last day discuss more in depth regarding the websites. Not everyone is familiar with git, Erin's video came in handy https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Ag1JiZzyUQ
- Shows how to switch between the workshop types

- Separate convo about demos: There is a possibility for having a notetaker. Have taken this opportunity to get familiar with the teaching demos, and because really great feedback from the host Trainers that this was super helpful that they could focus on their part, there was someone to help etherpad management. With the new Trainer agreement could we support this role a bit more, promoting notetaker/coteaching demos? Felt very nice not being alone there. It's a lot of wranglig
- Historically we went from 2 trainers 2 1 for capacity reasons. Having new people serve in that second Trainer role.

(If time) Trainer application review updates

# Trainer Meeting August 6, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200806T22

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Christina (from a while ago, but I never shared...I think?)

****Others attending****
- Ann Backhaus, ann.backhaus@pawsey.org.au
- Samar Elsheikh
- Murray  Cadzow
- Mike Trizna, triznam@si.edu
- Jeff Oliver
- Megan Guidry
- Sarah Brown
- Paula Andrea Martinez
- Ariel Deardorff, ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Zac Painter, zwp@stanford.edu
- Elizabeth Williams, ewilliams@carpentries.org
- Christina Koch; ckoch5@wisc.edu
- Darya Vanichkina
- Masami Yamaguchi; m.yamaguchi@griffith.edu.au
- Liz Stokes, liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au
- Sara King sara.king@aarnet.edu.au
- Kelly Barnes
- Evgenij Belikov, e.belikov@epcc.ed.ac.uk


Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Back from May, but Christina took notes! So can remember. Trained with Kari. So great to see what others do. Took time to have everyone introduce themselves, which often skip, but really set a dynamic in the group that was useful later on. Worries about time, but was worth it. Maybe 12 people, so not huge either. Lots of Carpentries meetings we always do introductions even if a larger group and it's really impactful. Kari calls on people and in a really engaging way. C tends to wait for people to volunteer. Recap at beginning of day 2, ___ what do you remember from yesterday? Worked well.
- How learning works asking people to define some of the terms in their own words, repeating those new key words more than once was useful for helping people to get things fixed in their minds.
- Paula: Were breakouts used?
- Chrstina: only in practice situations.
- Ann: was 12 a good size?
- Christina not totally sure it was 12 (have taught another workshop recently). More than 15 feels unwieldy, less than 8 feels small. 12 is kind of a nice spot to hit. With a small group you have to keep calling on people so they never get to take a break; with a large group it's hard to create enough opportunities to participate. In person you could do more without losing those opportunities to participate, because small group work is easier.
- Elizabeth first IT with 25 people teaching with Eric. Lots of complications in attendance. 100% on for both days because were tracking who was called on, no stepping back. Had them introduce to each other in breakouts. Had them give answers when called on then introduce the person they talked to. These introductions broke up the content, introduced fun into the first day.
- Christina maintainers onboarding call with Angela 20+ people on the call, still did intros, made it clear that they needed to be short and had people use a clear prompt.
- Ann we try to bring some use of senses into the introductory piece. Coming in from other meetings. Short meditation with eyes closed, think about the best online experience, and why was it so? Just that physical thing, closing eyes, brought people into the moment -- good feedback on that. Stretches, claps, leaving baggage from meetings behind.
- Paula: 1 minute mime used in CarpentryCon meeting. People will do it for 1 minute. We did an under the water theme. Asked for vounteers in another activity for leader and photographer

### Announcements
- Voting for trainer agreement is still open
- Trainer applications are now closed, but are open for us to review. :)
- We got 41 applications! over 10 countries
- Could use a few more reviewers. Contact Karen!

### Topic of the month: half day training events
- What are the challenges and opportunities of a 4 half-day event?
- When to do breaks? (people seem to like to know in advance when the breaks are, but also may be upset if one doesn't keep to schedule) - if they are different every day but scheduled in advance does that work?
- How to handle the wrap-up/recap and homework -- and introductions on the morning of each day. I would really have a plan for this, partially to adress Arin's concerns about the longer gap between sessions.
- Do activities balance across the four days?
- Christina: I think so. The activities are different across the sections (more "write an exercise" for how learning works; more sharing for positive environment, "practice" in the teaching skills). we could maybe have a better mix, but that's more a reflection of the material itself than splitting into four days! Something to think about!
- Do the four themes divide into the four days? (How learning works, building teaching skills, creating a positive environment, carpentries history + culture) -- roughly, but not *exactly*
- Ann: Way to intersperse (hands-on) actual practice teaching throughout? E.g., I learn a new technique/skill/knowledge and then I focus on that in particular - what does it feel like? How is it different whenI teach a particular segment? Then break. Then next "new" technique and apply that in the same segment (practice teaching). And keep building bit by bit onto the same "teaching segment" and applying/changing bit by bit. Building the teaching segment. Learn-Do. Learn-Do. <-- this should really be the case no matter how we divide the material!  Ann: Agree! :)
- day 1 splits reasonably-ish at least, but splitting day 2 as is would be one whole haf day of teaching and one whole hald day of less activity...
- have split and done 13,20,21,14-18, 23-25 before it works well, so a possible day 3/4 could be 13,20,21,14,15// 17,18, 23-25
- Could easily do the second live coding session on the afternoon of day 2 -- that morning of day 2 is already super long and there's time to add it in the afternoon.
- yes in the abovethe 2nd teaching falls in the afternoon
- add more "reflection episodes" like 12 & 13 so that each break is effective// preparation. (homework) time in the workshop
- Wrap up and homework could be done on etherpad to allow for the extra time that online training can take
- Shorter sessions can handle shorter breaks - you could do 2 (or 3) x 5 min breaks - use cuckoo.team to get people back in time
- Would try to avoid waiting for the 3 session to be the first time they get to teach/live coding. [technically there is teaching practice + feedback in 2nd session, but it's not live coding] It seems that adding a few exercises/ or homework in the first and second session to have them practice will be beneficial
- Opportunity: if you have all sessions in the morning is that you avoid the post-lunch slowdown +1 also give people the afternoon to do their own work. +1 mornings are best!
- Opportunity: reduce cognitive load -- the one day of material is a LOT.
- Challenge: in our experience, learners will not commit (due to work/life) to 4x 1/2 days on one  week, b/c that means they have 1/2 a week for work, often the afternoon when they're already tired, OR they're dead in the afternoon, b/c they tried to cram a day of work into 1/2 day in the morning. We run "normal" 2 day Carpentries workshops, and quickly realised learners would skip 1-3 hours throughout the week with this setup. Our approach has  been to stagger it across 2 weeks, 2 consecutive mornings or afternoons each week.
- could it be an option to run with lunch 2h before and 2h after? this would give a larger break time inbetween
- could give a bit more homework? Possibilities for out-of-class (to save time):
- think another thing that might be video able is the workshop website page setup (with a short Q&A/flipped style in class).  (Darya)
- the How We Operate homework (Karen)
- Lex's and Greg's videos of poor teaching come to mind (Evgenij)
- Challenge: we may expect attrition over 4 days, like playing a test match. If we can build momentum in a way that we can give the end up front, i.e. checkout, then build from there.
- Challenge: The gap between sessions is not short.  Have to keep that longer gap in mind.
- Liz: reframing of trainer training from an "event" to a "practice" as it goes from an intensive 2-day format to a more spread-out multi-day event+ 1
- Liz: I guess my question (coordinating and scheduling instructor training inaust/nz/oceania region) is also informed by looking for ways to support local trainers community. for example, these meetings are difficult to make across our timezones, so as much as I aoppreciate connecting with everyone here, what can be adjusted that better suits local conditions.
