# Trainer meeting, June 4  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200604T14

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Aleks Nenadic (will do my best to join but we are running a DC workshop at the same time)
- Kari Jordan


****Others attending****
- Angelique van Rensburg
- Kelly Barnes
- Serah Rono
- Kari Jordan
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Lex Nederbragt
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Elizabeth Williams
- Karen Word
- Konrad Förstner
- Maneesha Sane
- Sher! Hurt
- Robert Davey


****Apologies****
- Toby Hodges - I'll be at the Turing Institute's "Challenging Power in Data Science" webinar (https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/challenging-power-in-data-science-tickets-105238272506), which starts at the same time
Paola Corrales

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion

****Aleks Nenadic:****
- Feedback document: https://github.com/edcarp/2020-05-28-ttt-edinburgh/blob/gh-pages/FEEDBACK.md
- Key mistakes / areas to improve based on feedback
- Using live coding instead of live-teaching as a time
- 15 minute breaks not enough - worked with 30 minutes
- 5pm a bit late to close - ended at 4.30 instead to curb Zoom fatigue
- Good feedback around time keeping and sticking to schedule (find this in feedback doc)
- Concern about privacy + GDPR in sharing email addresses in Etherpad, and having those saved publicly after demo sessions
- Challenge over using breakout rooms and finding information shared in main room chat - people felt lost in breakout rooms for a while
- End of day 1 and day 2 exercises - live coding exercises done on day one rather than the last day
- Exercises took longer than scheduled for - prompts from main room not very effective. Discovered Zoom countdown timer after training
- Revisit time set aside for exercises?
- Ask if others have experienced need for more time for exercises in Instructor Training sessions
- Concept maps and mental models
- Not enough examples to draw a distinction between these
- People articulated need for more time
- I wonder if concept map and mental models could be put together in one lesson and save some time for other things? As concept maps are just externalised mental models.
- Input from other trainers

****Kari:****
- Feedback Document: https://github.com/kariljordan/2020-05-28-ttt-online-EDT/blob/gh-pages/FEEDBACK.MD
- Faced a lot of challenges similar to Alek's i.e. timing
- On mental models and concept maps
- Has practiced a lot more and did a good jon
- Think of mental models as being from the perspective of the learner
- Think of concept maps as being from the perspective of the instructor
- i.e. use concept maps to figure out / decide what to prioritise in a workshop from entire set of resources available
- Kari previously thought of mental models as building blocks for concept maps, but feels above explanation, inspired by Christina, is more accurate
- Kelly Barnes was present too, and reinforced a lot of the pedagogy that we cover, Kari appreciates this
- Kari and Christina covered Bloom's Taxonomy, but wasn't able to cover Faded examples

Mark:
- Took instructor training w/ Greg - he introduced concept maps by asking people to map something familiar to them i.e. your journey to the grocery store. Helped reinforce the concept
- Is it possible to ask people to work on their first draft of concept maps before they come to IT?

Kelly:
- Struggled with the concept map exercise -
- Felt stuck in the time it needed to be done
- Part of it included a breakout room exercise - the breakout room ask wasn't very clear

Aleks:
- I also remember Greg saying that we should use out best judgement and context to decide what to teach from the IT curriculum - it is not possible to cover everything.
- Google doc with all exercises in it, and copied over to chat as the sessions progress -  that might help, will try and report back
- Karen will move this discussion to Discourse for other people's input

### Announcements
- Discourse ( https://forum.carpentries.org/ ):
- Status
- Continuing to use this on an experimental basis
- Have people joined?
- Trainers group is private, and Karen Word would need to add you
- If so, what are your thoughts on using it? Add comments to the notes. :)
- Changes to how install / setup instructions are handled on workshop website template
- PR is under review by Maintainers and Lesson Infrastructure Committee: https://github.com/carpentries/workshop-template/pull/664
- Goal is to make it easier for instructors to set up their workshop website and for learners to find the correct install instructions
- Should "just work" - will send out an announcement when things go live. Please contact ebecker@carpentries.org
- Bonus Module (online training)
- https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/instructor-training-bonus-modules/
- Trainers input is very welcome, content design is WIP i.e.
- for the Zoom section
- E. Wickes' table from the Task Force work that informed the start of this pilot is in the extras section, as it hasn't been decided where to fit it
- Feedback would be very useful ahead of the pilot
- Module is about online training, but approach will trancend our current need, and be applied across Carpentries' initiatives such as Code of Conduct enforcement

### Topic of the month: sharing experiences expanding inclusivity and supporting work against oppression in your communities.
Karen:
- Ackowledges the situation in the US is difficult, but not unique to that region- injustices like this are happening around the world
Kari
- Thanks to everyone for willingness to engage in this conversation
- Carpentries has been at the forefront of allyship over the years, but not taken strong action in the past, given we are not a social justice org
- Got a question from a community member: Is there any way we can sponsor a targeted call for participation or an award fund to increase representation in coding communities?
- We can act within our realm of influence
- 50% of funding from workshops is for underserved communities according to our website. There is no clear workflow for community members in underserved communities to apply for that funding yet, look out for that in the next 4-6 weeks
Mark
- When the GitHub (and ICE) conversation came up, we didn't address it effectively
- Need to start asking about inclusivity in terms of access to the tools we introduce to community members - even open source ones
- Look at our lessons and have conversations around what needs to be migrated
- Start practicing our core values as far as our curriculum is concerned, and choose to work with resources / tools made by orgs that share our values
- Karen: sounds like Mark is talking about technical inclusivity
- Mark: in part - there is the political aspect of things, and that needs to be considered as well
- Angelique
- In SA, there is no access to laptops, connectivity in a lockdown
- SADILAR pays for accommodation and covers travel to help bypass this
- With covid-19, they are buying data for learners
- Bigger questions still remain unanswered, like how to handle live-coding remotely
- Karen: funding is definitely one of the bigger issues that need discussion
- Karen: UC Davis program working to bring in diverse voices and be inclusive
- Doesn't always work as seamlessly - it is really hard to find ways to bring people in
- In early years, work was done to get the work out to diverse communities - resulted in an increase in involvement by people of color - engagement is therefore an iportant start
- Attempted to run Carpentries-ES workshops because there's a large spanish community in davis, this didn't work out - because it is an academic environment. Spanish speakers were prepared to teach, but there was no demand for these workshops.
- Aleks
- Quality of academic software and recent backlash in the UK around sharing software
- Code used to model COVID-19 (models)  by Prof. Ferguson - it was legacy code of poor quality
- Code was used to give govt data that led to lockdowns across the UK - https://www.researchprofessionalnews.com/rr-news-uk-views-of-the-uk-2020-5-critique-software-but-understand-the-constraints-it-s-written-under/   
- Software Sustainability Institute had to address the confrontation academic software faced and comparison w/ industry software https://twitter.com/ResFortnight/status/1263751741427912704
- Also addressed the fact that software is not widely recognised as a research output in academia, which presents an added challenge
- Karen
- https://twitter.com/daniela_witten/status/1268392721275744256 - example of how it can be difficult to effect change in academia,
- Let's continue to think creatively about what we can do



# Trainer Meeting June 4, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200604T22

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Christina K. - https://kariljordan.github.io/2020-05-28-ttt-online-EDT/
- Murray Cadzow
- Sarah Stevens and Angela Li (pre) - https://uc-carpentries.github.io/2020-06-08-ttt-uchicago/

****Others attending****
- Ann Backhaus
- Paula Andrea Martinez
- Sara King
- Liz Stokes
- Lex Nederbragt
- Sarah Brown
- Darya Vanichkina
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Samar Elsheikh
- Ariel Deardorff
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Zac Painter
- Tim Dennis
- Karen Word

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion

### Announcements
- https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/05/2020-carpentrycon-at-home-proposals/
- Discourse ( https://forum.carpentries.org/ ):
- Have people joined?
- If so, what are your thoughts on using it? Add comments to the notes. :)
- Changes to how install / setup instructions are handled on workshop website template
- PR is under review by Maintainers and Lesson Infrastructure Committee:https://github.com/carpentries/workshop-template/pull/664
- Goal is to make it easier for instructors to set up their workshop website and for learners to find the correct install instructions
- Should "just work" - will send out an announcement when things go live. Please contact ebecker@carpentries.org
- Bonus Modules (online training)
- https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/instructor-training-bonus-modules/

### NOTES

- Recent trainings
- Murray, NZ training (may 11-12)
- Intense due to uncertainty about country's lockdown levels
- Lots of zoom fatigue - some people couldn't make it, others dropped out partway through
- Participants preferred breakout rooms to larger group discussions
- Side note: zoom randomization of rooms doesn't actually randomize that much
- Brian: can use randomize function
- As host, Murray moved helpers round to breakout rooms but stayed as host in the main room
- Karen: can co-hosts move themselves to breakout rooms? Murray: No. (endorsed by Christina)
- Ariel: do co-hosts get added to breakout rooms? Murray: created an extra room to place co-hosts (had ot place people manually), they then ignored the
- Angela/Sarah, teaching *next* week (Mon/Tues) for UChicago
- Sarah: teaching same sections twice in a row which is a new experience.
- Angela: reduce prep load if you were teaching familiar material - useful in these times!!
- Both excited about being able to re-teach same material and make changes and improve.
- Darya: zoom fatigue is real!
- Go for refreshing breaks. Ask what they can see out their window, ask what they are looking forward to, ask what they hate about zoom meetings... showing off pets can be fun...
- Greg Wilson's "The unit of training is the bladder" - so sometimes on zoom I don't do the 1.5 hoursx4 sessions a day, instead doing every hour: 50 mins on, 10 mins off... +1 from Christina

### Announcements
- CC@ Home
- Scheduling; plan is for different sessions over a period of 6 weeks. Christina can try to clarify on the proposal repository
- Discourse
- Brian: has an RSS feed of activity from it -- which is quite helpful for general "keeping an eye on things"
- Bonus modules
- Offer feedback!!!!!

### Topic of the month: sharing experiences expanding inclusivity and supporting work against oppression in your communities.

- Recognition that while this topic is coming up because of what's happening on the US, in the future, want to make these discussions more inclusive of situations *around the world* as these issues are ongoing in many places and don't get the same amount of press but are important to discuss.
- Prompt: share about your experiences expanding inclusivity and supporting work against oppression in your communities.
- Ann Backhaus - Echoing Darya's comments re: REconciliaton week in Aus. There are a lot of events organised nationally and locally, and we try to encourage conversation and provide safe space for those conversations. (Am part of the D&I CoP)
- Sara King - US events have brought up again the injustices here in Australia regarding indigenous people, and that often our population knows more about what's happening internationally than what's happening at home because the local injustices just don't seem to make the news most of the time. There's been a lot of conversation in the knitting and craft community around the world since last year, and I'm really keen to keep supporting companies and people that make a stand - Ravelry for example has been showing great leadership there. SO much work to do everywhere - all corners of society, even the 'nice' ones like the knitters! And like Masami, we do an Acknowledgement to Country before all online training sessions.  +2 for the knitters! (Christina)
- Liz Stokes
- Sarah Brown
- My recent related efforts have been in reminding the Black students I supervise to take breaks from media and to care for themselves (and doign the same)
- I also relied on an ally who's less directly impacted to push an organization i'm affiliated with to revise their statement to be more inclusive
- And currently shwoing up and working right now is all I've got memory of for now
- Darya Vanichkina
- It's Reconciliation week in Australia (27 May - 3 June), so we have had conversations around this locally as well. One interesting proposal voiced was to rename many of our building on campus (some with the delightful name "F23") with their Gadigal placenames.
- I grew up in Russia, where police brutality is a norm. So I can relate to many of the experiences of avoiding police and making yourself (or  your friends/colleagues) appear harmless to avoid attracting attention. Lots of stories I've lived.
- Providing training is a form of resistance to me, as it provides the people who attend with transferrable skills they can use beyond their current roles and the expectations of their mentors, which are often related directly to research outcomes only. And going above and beyond to make sure that everyone learns as much as possible in that training is a personal action point - not just the people who best match the learner personas.
- Learning more and listening, and knowing that it's unfair to assume both that someone of a particular race has experienced oppression, and - conversely - that someone who presents as the "majority" race has not.
- Being careful with the datasets we choose for our training: a lot of people have advocated to use election fraud, corruption, COVID in their teaching, for example, because "it's relevant" - but for many learners these are not theoretical issues, but things that have affected their everyday life. I'd rather use more "boring" datasets that don't trigger learners' trauma.
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Structuring in the welcome to country is an important part of my workshop planning, and I prioritise it above the code of conduct. It might be useful to have a structural requirement of giving a workshop a year in the bush as part of the university's contract, so there's a formal preference to taking real action, rather than having it viewed as a token thing.
- I'm making a point of featuring aboriginal stories and art in the major project that I'm workng on with my institution -- making sure the image-banner representing us features local (and explicitly permitted by the artist) art, and making sure that we don't turn into an all "ancient northern hemiphere cultures" content-channel.
- Making pointed timing decisions around the largest population-centres around the world, rather than focusing on a US-centric time-slice, so that we can support under-served folk.
- Samar Elsheikh
- +ve: I was attending an ISBI-IEEE conference in Washington DC. There was a dialy online newsletter every morning where some talk/poster presenters of the day are featuers. I wanted to get featured so much and was looking for the interviewer - when I found him he was so happy that he found me: I got interviewed and he told me he thought I would be a goot fit, because I was: Muslim+Black+African+Women in STEM :D
- My current institution, tries to recruit tutors from all over Africa who can also speak French or Arabic, from diverse backgrounds too, as well as international tutors.
- Ariel Deardorff
- Its a small thing but I have tried to be very purposeful about recruiting diverse instructors and helpers for our workshops after out first couple workshops had 60% female learners and 100% male instructors/helpers. There is definitely more we can do to ensure that our learners see themselves reflected in the instruction team.
- One of my colleague does a great job inserting social justice-related prompts into her classes. For example a class on data sharing might feature a researcher looking to share her research data on racial disparities in pregnancy outcomes (also to highlight real research topics at my institution)
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Before workshops/presentations starting, my university often acknowledge Aboliginals and Torres Strait Islanders.
- My university runs Harmony week in March, which embraces different cultures, language and so on, by running multiple events to celebrate diversity.
- Zac Painter
- We have had a lot of participants from other Stanford units that are not as well served, or perhaps can't be reached as easily, at some of our workshops. I have tried to be agnostic towards taking on some of these people, mostly because I realize we offer a service that can be difficult to find inexpensive or locally available help for.
- Tim Dennis: We had the opportunity to teach GIS and R to a class organized by Million Dollar Hoods a LA group dedicated to address the costs of mass incarceration in Los Angeles. The class was awesome and composed of students fromLA who were often directly affected by the theme of the class. This has led to some work with the MDH group -- helping process LAPD data and generally an incredible educational experience for everyone on the team.
- Murray C. - really mindful about trying to use and expand on the diversity of the instructor/helper pool for workshops and also raising issues of panels/committees not being diverse when we're setting them up. Also being mindful to not continually use the same person/people from under represented groups so that they don't get burdened. Plan to engage more with the local groups on campus.
- Angela L.: I started a dialogue within the R-Ladies community about the role of BIPOC (Black/Indigenous People of Color) in our group and questioning how we could show allyship. The Chicago group has always seen a need to further push for inclusivity in these areas, and by sharing our perspectives and allowing others to safely share theirs I think will allow the community to surface and discuss a lot of hard topics, or things we hadn't been comfortable expressing before. I think it also allowed US-based organizers to realize that we have our own biases, for example - not seeing similar cases of injustice / exclusion around the world. Locally, I think standing up and saying something is extremely important to our Black members and the Black communities we do serve here.
- One other thing to keep in mind is that for those in oppressed groups - self-preservation is a radical act! So reaching out to those I know personally (i.e. close friends or colleagues, NOT someone I remember is a member of an oppressed group and also happen to know) in communities that have been affected + checking in on their mental health, making sure they're taking care of themselves, not getting traumatized by the news, telling them it's ok that they're not being "productive" during this time. This too is extremely important!
- Sarah S.: We often get comments in stickies that they are excited to see how many women instructors taught in the workshop and other comments about wishing there was more racial diversity among the instructor pool.  I'd like to work on that and have been working with some of the campus groups for underrepresnted students to see how we can more actively engage with those groups. Before the pandemic, we'd been planning to organize a workshop specifically for a grad student fellowship org that helps support underrepresented students.  It is kind of unclear if we will go forward with the workshop at the moment but I hope when the group is interested we might be able to hold that workshop.  I'd really like to see more diversity in our instructor pool.  Suggestions on how to work on that are appreciated!
- set a realisitc goal for how diverse you want your pool to be based on who's at your insitution so as to avoid overburdening a superminority
- Great suggestion.
- Start with learners, i think the feelowship org is a great place to go and then convert to instructors.
- I really apppreciate the suggestions Sarah!
- Christina K.
- Very immediately, I'm donating to local organizations + having conversations with friends. Building a network of support to make it easier to take concrete steps or make commitments that right now feel beyond me.
- For events: making sure events I'm affiliated w/ have a Code of Conduct and process for enforcing it, that presenters always use mics, etc.
- Karen Word: There are a few things that I learned from my experience with a related bioinformatics training program in Davis. 1) Early efforts at reaching out to underrepresented communities pay off because people who have positive experiences stay with the program and recruit their friends. 2) It's often hard to actively recruit people without funding and additional support. They aren't interested if they don't have a project, they may need transportation and housing etc. 3) Running spanish language workshops in the US seems like a good idea but it turns out the demand just isn't there. OH and 4) avoiding "merit" based selection processes, that tend to favor the privileged (not the 'best' or those who will most benefit) is really important
