# Trainer Meeting 1, April 2, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200402T14

****Training discussion (pre and post, name, affiliation, email, pronouns)):****
- Maneesha Sane and Vanessa Gonzalez https://maneesha.github.io/2020-04-14-ttt-online-EDT/
- Pre and post: Sarah Stevens
- post: https://sarahlrstevens.info/2020-02-13-ttt-online-EST/
- pre: https://uw-madison-datascience.github.io/2020-04-22-ttt-uwmadison/
- post: Sher! and François, UC Santa Barbara, https://fmichonneau.github.io/2020-03-19-ttt-ucsb/

****Others attending (name, affiliation, email, pronouns)****
- Elizabeth Williams, The Carpentries, ewilliams@carpentries.org, any pronoun
- Sher! , The Carpentries, sheararon@carpentries.org, she/her
- Bianca Peterson, North-West University, South Africa, bianca.peterson777@gmail.com, she/her
- Annika Rockenberger (she/her), arockenberger@gmail.com, Norway / Nordic Carpentries community
- Angelique van Rensburg, Carpentries, angelique@carpentries.org, any is fine
- Sarah Brown, Brown University, smb@sarahmbrown.org, she/her
- Serah Rono, The Carpentries, Tallinn, serah@carpentries.org, she/her
- Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries, kariljordan@carpentries.org, she/her
- Toby Hodges, EMBL Heidelberg, tbyhdgs@gmail.com, he/him
- Lex Nederbragt, Univ. of Oslo, lex.nederbragt@ibv.uio.no, he/him
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Paola Corrales, Buenos Aires University, paobcorrales@gmail.com
- François Michonneau, francois@carpentries.org, he/him
- Anne Fouilloux, University of Oslo, Norway, anne.fouilloux@gmail.com
- Sarah Stevens, University of Wisconsin - Madison, sarah. stevens, she/her/hers
- Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org

****Apologies****
- Laura Acion, University of Buenos Aires - CONICET, lacion@gmail.com, she/her (I set my personal calendar wrongly and have another overlapping meeting)

Notetaker: Serah Rono

Agenda:
### Introductions!
### Pre and post workshop discussion
Maneesha:
- Teaching instructor training in two weeks
- Signed up, and teaching w/ Vanessa - meeting later this afternoon to start planning
- There's one training happening today
- Other than that, there haven't been many other instructor trainings in this time
- Worries about people sitting in for training w/ current WFH conditions and distractions around that i.e. child care, and wondering what accommodations can be made
- Vanessa: Unreliable connectivity is a concern, Vanessa's trying to fix hers in different ways as the days go by for now
- Kari: has anyone had experience calling into an Instructor Training before?
Karen:
- Good q, no experience so far
- Would be limiting - no screenshare, etc
- Using mobile data an option, but can get expensive pretty quickly
Sarah B:
- Using one's screen for screencasting only might help reduce bandwidth
Lex:
- Use mobile to speak, other screen to share slides only
- Alt, share slides w/ other people so they can operate slides on your behalf as you speak via mobile
- Supports Amy's suggestion below
- We've done 2 full days because in-person meetings provide room for people to concentrate discussions, travel, etc
Amy:
- Trying to reschedule a training / move it to online
- How about splitting up training so that instead of full-day sessions, work with mornings only, for example
- Might help a lot in accommodating people caring for others / needing to attend to other things in the course of their day
Sher!
- This is a legitimate concern - several people have cancelled in recent weeks
Toby:
- Splitting sessions might mean stretching them into week long trainings - not everyone would appreciate the stretch
- Important to have provisions for people to walk away to attend to unexpected issues - maybe ask attendees for consent to record sessions
Sarah B:
- Consider async modes of training in addition to / in place of recording so people can go through training in a self-paced manner
Toby :
- I’d be up for trying the “old” two-hour-sessions-over-eight-weeks format for instructor training too
Annika
- @ pre-recorded - I think this could work for the lecture-style parts; they could be prepared for the actual discussion/exercise sessions (flipped classroom style)
Sarah S.:
- Post-workshop report from Feb
- Large group: `had ~ 4-5 no-shows
- Didn't aggresively invite people to participate, people didn't interact as much.
- Suggestions
- Maneesha:
- Likes Sarah S.'s approach to call on people to participate as it gives people room to speak, and communicates that everyone will get a chance
- Karen:
- instantenous response is to default to breakouts, both in in-person and online settings, and report back to the group
- has gotten a lot of +ve feedback about this approach
- feels certain Sarah S did a great job w/ her training
- Bianca (in Zoom chat):
- We got feedback once (workshop) where someone said that he/she hated the fact that we called on people randomly, and if we call on him/her, he/she would literally get up and walk out. Feedback was anonymous, so from that point forward we rather asked if anyone had questions or wanted to answer questions we asked. 
- Pre-workshop prep
- Trying new strategies, will report back on how that's going  later
- Sher / François:
- Was in-person, converted to online at the last minute
- Participants enjoyed breakout sessions - maximised on this, increased participation w/ the group
- It was harder to estimate how long to assign sessions
- Got experienced trainers to speak about their experiences
- Forgot to cap this, went on for longer than usual
- Recommends 45 min for such a session

### Announcements
- Laura, Paola, and a number of Carpentries friends in Argentina launched https://metadocencia.netlify.com (sorry for the Spanish), an effort strongly inspired by The Carpentries' and Greg Wilson's materials to teach local university instructors in any domain basic skills to put their classes online, a request from most of our institutions to face the Covid19 lockdown. It is a free, volunteer, and open effort that has reached about 40 instructors so far and will reach about 30 more by the end of this week. We would be very happy to see it replicate, particularly in Spanish speaking regions in need of fast learning skills to teach effectively online.
- Carpentries Core Team is not going to be following up on non-responses to event or demo signups for a while. However, we are a little short on Trainers to teach events. If/when you have more knowledge about your availability in the coming months, we'd love to hear from you.
- Toby suggests summarising this text and displaying it prominently on a page accessible to Trainers.
- Maybe also consider scheduling one to be taught by 3-4 trainers instead of 2 to accomodate schedules? +1
- Topic of the month: Online Workshops & COVID-19 Response Task Force Update
- Slides with info: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17SFftTzeift1iUgshNg74t3-jMSAOpsWtI3l5EQH4ZE/edit?usp=sharing
- Karen: we will have quality-control over the first set of recommendations we share, but need to create room for community to iteratively share other recommendations based on their experiences
***Questions:***

***Suggestions:***
- Toby: do we know of any instructors who will be teaching these online workshop quite frequently over the coming months? I’d love to read a series of blogposts reflecting on their experience and how they’re iterating on their approach!
- Karen: we plan on soliciting for this type of content, and Discourse (https://forum.carpentries.org ) is a great place to encourage community to share content they write / come by in the meantime
- Sarah B: We could have a comunity discussion where we offer a chance to practice with host capabilities (breakout rooms, etc) like we did in a trainer meeting once?
- Sarah S: maybe encourage folks trying new virtual options to join for pre/post-workshop sessions?
- Lex: Darya’s (excellent!) blog posts:
- https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-1/
- https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-2/ and
- https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-great-online-learning-student/ 
- Twitter thread you can amplify: https://twitter.com/dvanichkina/status/1245626981477003264
- Toby: themed discussion session every two weeks on this topic? I can commit to chairing at least 50% of those (maybe recording them too) i suppose the pre/post- workshop discussion fit to this already?
- Sarah S: I really appreciate that we are trying to put together experiences and putting together a guidelines for doing this with a Carpentries workshop.
- Karen: Maybe a time for trainers to host/participate in discussion sessions

# Trainer Meeting 2, April 2, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200402T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Tim D - pre: https://ucla-data-archive.github.io/2020-04-16-ttt-online-PDT/
- Christina K - pre (similar to Tim)

***Others attending***
- Ann Backhaus, Pawsey Supercomputing Centre, Western Australia, ann.backhaus@csiro.org
- Murray Cadzow, University of Otago, New Zealand, murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
- Darya Vanichkina, University of Sydney, d.vanichkina@gmail.com @dvanichkina
- Angela Li, University of Chicago, ali6@uchicago.edu
- Christina Koch, UW Madison
- Masami Yamaguchi, Griffith University, m.yamaguchi@griffith.edu.au
- Paula Andrea Martinez, NIF,
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton, Macquarie
- Sue McClatchy, The Jackson Laboratory, susan.mcclatchy@jax.org
- Tim Dennis, UCLA, @jt14den
- Ariel Deardorff, UC San Francisco, ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu
- Zac Painter, Stanford, zwp@stanford.edu
- Evgenij Belikov, EPCC, University of Edinburgh, e.belikov@epcc.ed.ac.uk
- Eric Jankowski, Boise State University, ericjankowski@boisestate.edu
- Karen Word

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Tim D (w/ Kate): teaching online next week
- Karen: no major changes in the past few months
- Sue (just finished!!), taught w/ Mike
- Despite worry + uncertainty (including participant's state of mind) - it went really well!
- People were appreciative, engaged, excited to be there.
- Worried about zoom-bombing (https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/style/zoombombing-zoom-trolling.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article) - lots of simple things you can do to prevent zoom bombing:
- Only host can screen share**
- Could require a password (maybe in the future)
- Karen will share the host code via email now that topicbox list is private.
- Be prepared. :)
- Tips from Paula
- Training felt very quiet - that's normal. In person, have more visual feedback, online, harder to tell and feels more "silent."
- Practice the breakout rooms in advance.
- Can do either manually or randomly. Depends a little on the training situation - if there's people you want to group (co-located, or from similar area), use manual option.
- Have people edit their names to make it easier to group people.
- Tip from Ann: think out loud as you're doing things (so there's not silence while you're doing actions), like "okay, now I'm going to put you in breakout rooms, this will take a few seconds" etc...

### Announcements
- Still in the middle of scheduling upcoming trainings
- Paula idea: Split 4 sessions instead of 2 days.  Zac and Amy talking about at Stanford. Ariel mentions best retention ever with 4-half-days. - People will pop out, kids will pop in during a full-day stay-at-home session.  How handle someone missing an instructor training session with current chaos?
- Would be helpful if we could do smaller blocks of time (4 half days instead of 2 full)
- People have a lot more conflicts now, much more challenging to do full work blocks
- From zac: the other thing about four half-days; the time zones can be more flexible for different groups, since you don’t need as many blocked hours in a row.
- How to handle when people miss more than 1 hour?
- Individual catch up?
- Mike, Sue, Karen, Brian, Darya volunteered
- Have videos?
- BBS: Darya's amazing workshop and blog posts for tuesday (Australia times)
- https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-1/
- https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-2/ and
- https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-great-online-learning-student/ 
- Twitter thread you can amplify: https://twitter.com/dvanichkina/status/1245626981477003264

### Topic of the month - online workshops!
- Recommendations to start: as familiar as possible to both instructors/learners
- Live, synchronous, videoconferencing
- Don't introduce unnecessary tools
- Implementation details
- Assessment!! SUPER important in order to keep moving towards practices that work
- Infrastructure: tech (like zoom) + docs
- Huge documentation + training project - how to onboard instructors on new and continually being updated teaching practices.
- Plan for change
- Going to require iteration
- People are going to just try things. :)
- Trainer contributions
- Teaching a to-be-written bonus module including some of the above
- Leader/advisor roles
- Prepping to teach (AS A TEAM) key. Can't be ignored going to online.
- Instructor focus on teaching, not managing chats.
- Screen real estate hard with coding place, zoom, shared notes document. Tell how to use.

***Side tip:***
- BBS: Make sure to manually update your zoom clients. Most updates they don't automatically update. Yesterday I went from 2.7 to 3.5
- Eric: Minimum requirements for Carpentries Online workshops
- Paula if anyone is looking for a zoom alternative https://jitsi.org/ I saw it working well at a meeting this week.
