# Trainer meeting, October 21, 2021  UTC 14:00  Guest: Alycia Crall
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211021T14

**Attending**
- Alycia Crall, The Carpentries
- Mark Laufersweiler, Univ Oklahoma Libraries
- Kelly Barnes, The Carpentries
- Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries
- Sarah Stevens, University of Wisconsin-Madison
- Jon Wheeler, University of New Mexico
- Angela Li, Princeton University
- Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University
- Trisha Adamus, University of Wisconsin - Madison
- David Pérez-Suárez (he-him), University College London - UK, Carpentries i18n (translations)
- Mike Trizna, Smithsonian Institution
- Luis J. Villanueva, Smithsonian
- Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries
- Mateusz Kuzak, the Netherlands eScience Center
- Karen Word, The Carpentries
- Nathaniel Porter, Virginia Tech
- Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries
- Margareth Gfrerer, Higher Education Strategy Centre, Addis Ababa
- Hao Ye (he/him), University of Florida

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Presentation
Blog post re: Community Development Program: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/10/announcing-community-development-program/
Learn more about Champions programs: https://zenodo.org/record/5275270#.YXFtw9nMJz8
Carpentries Community Cookbook: https://cookbook.carpentries.org/
Community Facilitators Program: https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/09/introducing-community-facilitators-program/
## Discussion questions
- What would be key roles for an "Instructor Lead" in a community?
- Support new instructor recruitment
- Support instructors through checkout process
- Support instructors teaching for first time
- Mark: Jonah came from OU and at that time The Carpentries was trying to specifically grow member institutions and new memberships. With his background in the University and Libraries, that was a specific vision. That reached a semi-stable state and goal of Champions was to bring on new institutions. Growth around individual instructors (unaffiliated) as well as new areas of interest has brought natural end to growth of memberships. As we think about these champions, fear is that these new communities will become more specialized and isolated. How do we tie these communities togther? Domain based or Instructor based or Curriculum based. Institutions are a home for Instructors who are part of other communities... maintaining communication across these communities is valuable. Jonah's program did what it was supposed to do but wasn't thought through for sustainability as a template to grow other related communities but still keeping the tie to the core. Back in the early days Maintainers felt isolated, had to work to bring them back in to help them feel part of the community. They weren't Instructors necessarily, weren't taking an active teaching role. Think this is really great and a sign of a mature organization, just don't want to create pockets of isolation within the community.
- Alycia: have been thinking about ways to get different communities to come together and share ideas and resources
- Mike: Mentorship. Previously there was (is?) mentorship program that was very open-ended. You are paired with a mentor and choose your goal, whatever that might be. Tended to be new Instructor trainees looking to get through checkout or teach something new or for the first time. That model might be useful in that there was an end point to it, it wasn't just open/indefinite. Followed the goal-making process (smart tools?) being able to achieve your goals in a time-constrained process. Might be something to draw upon there.
- Alycia: agree! These are very preliminary ideas to good to come at it from all different directions. For example maybe instead of having one coordinator, having one identified for a year and someone identified who will take up the following year, but other person will be prepared to rotate in. Maybe the same thing for other types of positions, but other types of mentoring as well that could help.
- Kari: status of mentoring program. Current IDC is responsible for running it. We had a showcase a couple months ago (will find dates). Mentors and mentees discussed different tasks, lots of fun. My mentees prepared to teach Python workshop and got to practice with each other during mentoring sessions. Mentoring co-chairs transitioned into post-docs, once individuals leading a program we have to wait and see what next steps are. Waiting for next round of IDC leaders to be onboarded to figure out next steps.
- Mateusz: key thing is findig people who can commit to these aroles. Early research careers, life happens. They get excited about joining things that can fade when life becomes more difficult. Ensuring that there is continuity... how do we help them and ensure that people can fulfill these roles. This is something I see happening, one year is a very long time in a research career, a lot of things can happen. We need to keep that in mind.
- Alycia: Some communities are also smaller than others and may not need so many supporting roles. Thinking about what this model looks like so that it is flexible to meet the needs of all communities. Important point about time commitment -- we want this to be helpful not creat another thing that people need to do more for. Want to support.
- Mateusz: usually what happens is that the time commitment is greater than what people expect. If there are no coordinators or leads there might be no institutional memory about how we do things. If it isn't transferred from person to person how is it transferred. Ideally through people, but they have to be there.
- Alycia: this is where rotating roles may helpe people to support each other depending on time commitments
- Karen: dividing roles might help make them more mangeable and support retention
- Alycia: getting input on how to make these roles more manageable is a big part of developing this program. Also brought to Maintainers.
- What training would be required to onboard an "Instructor Lead?" What skills would they need to have?
- What are other ways a community could support and mentor its instructors?
- Margareth: this is what we talk about all the time in Ethiopia. I coordinate everything here and it is not clear how long I will be posted here. Not sure what will happen to the community here if I leave. This is a concern for everyone. If it isn't supported by the University, no one will continue. Since 2017-2018 we have discussed this and people leave with their PhD, and they may not come back.
- Alycia: have you tried to recruit a replacement?
- Margareth: we have quite a few Trainers here, some are more reliable. If I don't initiate activities, though, nothing happens. It was very quiet in the last month.
- Alycia: if Core Team provided professional development or other programming would that help them to feel more comfortable, motivated, excited about doing this work?
- Margareth: focus and income are the challenge. Maybe this is generally the situation in developing countries
- Angelique: with transition in my role this is exactly what we are going to be tackling in the new year. It is a developing country issue, less so in South Africa because our community is very established. Amazing work happening in Ethiopia and high on the priority list.
- Open floor
- Mike: A lot of questions about Instructors who have gone through training, but also thinking about supporting learners. So often we give them a skil and send them off into the wild. What are they doing with new skills, and are they practicing, learning next steps? There is a lot in the handbook about keeping learners engaged, but that can also be an on-ramp to new instructors. Targeting people asking questions in a workshop can be a great source of helpers and Instructors.
- Alycia: we are trying to put together a short simple community onboarding. We have so many resources but they are intimidating. As part of this we hope to have monthly onboarding calls starting next year, where we will be going through different ways to engage. Also have a lot of open time for q&A with core team. Let them meet Core Team, as questions etc. Returns to Mark's point too, re what infrastructure or activities can connect and guide all these individuals out there.
- Kari: noticed requests that we can't technically fulfill when an Instructor wants to find a certain number of Instructors in a particular area so they can reach out directly to them and coordinate a workshop. We haven't been able to solve that problem yet for our Instructors to be able to reach out to one another, they have to know that a mailing list exists and opt into it. Some way for Instructors to find each other other than searching our website by airport code.
- Alycia: bringing together individuals from certain areas -- how do we find everyone in one area to see if they are interested in joining? Larger challenge when we think about connecting folks but also maintaining privacy.
- Hao: optional modeule for 'creating a community of learning/practice" in chat - in response to Mike's comment about supporting learners after a workshop. Maybe some way for people who have completed Instructor Training to think about ways they can start developing a local community of practice around those learners
- Alycia: good idea, and nice way to support with broader infrastructure.
- Mark: having an avenue for people who are interested in reaching out, it would be good to give them a 'megaphone' -- you have to know a mailing list exists and follow it and you never know if it's just going to the void. Put theburden on the person who wants to organize, let them make a public announcement that they want to connect with people. Maybe have a Slack channel for community formation or shout-outs or something. In the interim it would be good to have a platform.
- Alycia: formalizing the process for getting that going is exactly what we'd want to do.
- Janetta: I did this exactly going through the list of Instructors looking for someone in or near Pakistan because someone in a workshop wanted to know. Very difficult. Isnt it worth creating a platform similar to Linkedin and people can connect and post . Slack is really nice if you know who you want to talk to but don't always know who or where people are. On Linkedin you have a little banner that you are available for work. Badges or banners when people are looking for something. Right now I have a team, but previously we weren't allowed to use the mailing lists becaus they were for CO workshops only. Now I know who to ask, but would have been nice to be able to browse and search.
- Alycia: wonderful idea.
- alycia@caprentries.org - please reach out!


# Trainer Meeting October 21, 2021, UTC 22:00  Guest: Alycia Crall
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211021T22

Name, location, one or more communities you belong to

**Attending**
- Alycia Crall, she/her, The Carpentries
- Rainier Barrett, he/him, Boise State University
- Jeff Oliver, he/him, University of Arizona
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton, Macquarie Uni
- Ben Chiewphasa, he/him, University of Notre Dame
- Pao Corrales, she/her, Universidad de Buenos Aires
- Kate Hertweck, perceived pronouns, CZI
- Ariel Deardorff, she/her, UC San Francisco
- Liz Stokes, she/they, ARDC, Sydney
- Christina Koch, she/her, UW Madison
- Sarah Brown she/her
- Yani Bellini Saibene, she/her, Santa Rosa, Argentina
- Kelly Barnes, The Carpentries
- Daniel Chen, he/him, Virginia Tech
- Karen Word she/her The Carpentries



Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/123N7k13NvsN7cs6vn0nvLjQdPL2mr18dOaqmbNvGiFg/edit?usp=sharing
Blog post re: Community Development Program: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/10/announcing-community-development-program/
Learn more about Champions programs: https://zenodo.org/record/5275270#.YXFtw9nMJz8
Carpentries Community Cookbook: https://cookbook.carpentries.org/
Community Facilitators Program: https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/09/introducing-community-facilitators-program/
## Discussion questions
- What are some concerns or challenges you see with the model proposed?
- Are there time expectations for these roles? Is this a "recommended structure" or a "you need to have these roles to be a community" model?++1
- recommended, lots of flexibility
- i like the idea, but keeping track of new roles is hard and increases the complexity of the "orientation to the community" aspect of Instructor training, we'll definitely need to have good materials to teach this so that the roles "stick" and people feel empowered +1
- Potential Isolation of subcommunities+1
- Ability for volunteers to serve in these roles; time commitment greater than what is expected?
- For members of communities with no memberships agreements can be dificult to alocate time for this roles. +1+1
- 1+1+1+1 This seems trickier for communities that arise organically
- BBS: It's also hard to allocate time for these roles *with* membership agreements, as the roles are seldom "priced" into the agreements. -- whatever time expectations exist need to be spelled out in the agreements.+1
- There are a lot of roles, just need to be more clear what each is actually going to be doing / responsible for
- +1+1
- How will all these roles be onboarded? who is going to "train" them?
- To follow-up, would this mean that there would need to be some sort of "community facilitator and coordinator" training program? And if so, would that create even more mores (thereby furthering the issue of having more new roles to track).
- core team will be onboarding
- Are there any regions you want to build a community in but are lacking instructor density to maintain them?
- I'm interested in how the impact of these roles will be evaluated - it looks like they could potentially inform and support each other, but making the space to do that is another hurdle
- Is the goal that each person connected with the Carpentries is a member of some sub-community, if they so desire? If so, how do they find out about and get oriented to the community of their choice. +1
- Clarifying about the regional coordinator-> community coordinator workshop coordination. How flexible is the definition of community here? Campus based / regional / national ?
- related to Daniel's question re: use of term "community" being potentially overloaded and making the communication around this organization being cumbersome, i wonder if there's another term
- Is there a way to leverage existing carpentries initiatives for building/maintianing the community? e.g., the community calls for people to congregate? + 1 like the idea of building off of what we already have
- r-ladies seem like something similar to what we're trying to solve? they have that strong central group that's similar to the carpentries core team. but have smaller global regional communities. is there something we can pull from how they have things set up?
- What would be key roles for an "Instructor Lead" in a community?
- Support new instructor recruitment
- Support learners after they attend a workshop
- Support instructors through checkout process
- Yani: We have experience helping with the checkout process and it works very well.  We are writing a blog post telling about the experience.
- More follow up from trainers to their training cohort (maybe an email two weeks later to check in and see how folks are going/ if there are any questions?
- facilitating prep or practice w/ checkout
- Support instructors teaching for first time
- +1, doing 1-1 mentoring or small group discussion/practice sessions
- developing and sharing community-specific norms for how the community operates, specifically in workshops
- "Instructor Lead" would be a confusing term when we already have a concept of "Lead Instructor" and "Co-instructors". +1
- What are other ways a community could support and mentor its instructors?
- BBS: In Australia, there is a low percieved value of the Carpentries in, for example, hiring decisions and by people "not in the club". How can these communities and community-leads increase the percieved value of the Carpentries to external stakeholders? How can these communities show that their members are valuable on, for example, a CV?+1+1
- related to the above: most communities have a mix of instructors +1 from various levels of expertise and training (e.g., grad students, postdocs, assistant profs, etc). It may be useful to raise the profile of the role of instructors by sharing who instructors for a community are (like trainers are listed on the Carpentries website). It seems like a win-win to acknowledge people who have exerted specific effort to get training in teaching, both to elevate the earlier career folks, and to show extra teaching commitment (mentoring is often a desirable-thing on promotion applications) for more senior folks+1
- +1 (And having senior folk lend prestige and expliclty network on behalf of the more early-career folk would be a tangible benefit)
- Thinking about this, having communities designed around a specific career-point as their "primary attractor" would change their shape significantly -- the time and social expectations placed on postgrads are very different than those epxected from mid-career folk.
- bonus module study groups to deepen skills
- peer evaluation that could be included in eg job evaluation materials
- Open floor
- You mentioned mixing together some of the previous community programs to achieve the same end/goals -- what IS the end goal of the community management process that you're describing? Is the goal to connect more people to the Carpentries, develop more lessons, empower more people to teach/run workshops, etc.?
- goals are to support communities that organically have formed and currently lack structure or guidance on how to be successful
- are any of these roles going to be held by a carpentries core member?
- RCs will be freed to do community work where Core Team is taking on the administrative roles they have played
- I think a big piece of all of this is sustainability - how do you build a sustainable community? And are there specific roles that support this?
- Additional notes:
- could we create community personas like learner/user profiles?
- This would be many-dimensional. What are the axes of variation and what are the intersections? Carpentries communities: discipline specific vs social sciences, how do they interact. Regional or local communities e.g. Seattle, yes they are all communities but what kidn of support do they need? Do all of these need these different roles? Do we need additional structure? Process can make it harder for communities to develop. Seems like a good way to make a roadmap to implement and develop a community.
- Thinking about local community. We don't have a membership for our local bay area group so we don't have Instructor slots. What could we do with an Instructor lead role? Other roles might also be more than we need in the early stage. Cookbook or template on how other communities have been successful, things to consider vs being asked who is in what role would be intimidating
- cookbook -> roles transition could be like a trajectory for communities
- what if community roles were like working in a restaurant? wait staff vs chefs. Everybody has an idea about an Instructor and a "lead" so breaking out of that might help to introduce it and frame the roles.
- different motivations to run a community. Sometimes the people who are most motivated are not the best ones to manage the community.
- Sustainability is really important. Not just new groups but how you keep a community going when founders move on or burn out.
- In a big community it is natural to have subcommunities. Good to provide help. I'm part of some, and they don't all have a clear role or way to contribute. It is a pity because sometimes I have time to contribute, e.g. to lesson translation efforts. In some way we can be more clear and make an easier way to contribute -- this would be good for everybody. In Latin America we are all volunteers. If you make it easy to contribute I can do more than I can do now. We have to prove that The Carpentries can be useful, maybe thatwill help us to do this in our jobs.
- R-ladies seems to do a lot of what we are trying to do, central community with many subcommunities. Can we learn from them?
- Alycia: one thing we will be starting next year is a community onboarding for all interested participants. That is a low entry point which may help people understand how to get involved and get them connected with communities of interest.
- alycia@carpentries.org
