# Trainer meeting, April 15, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210415T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
Sarah Stevens / she, her hers / University of Wisconsin-Madison (post workshops)
Trisha Adamus / she/her / University of Wisconsin -Madison (post workshop)


**Others attending**
 Mateusz Kuzak / he, him / the Netherlands eScience Center
 Angelique van Rensburg/The Carpentries/she, her, hers
Kari L. Jordan / The Carpentries / she, her
Maneesha Sane / The Carpentries
Margareth Gfrerer / Higher Education Strategy Center, Ethiopia
 Karen Word / The Carpentries / she/her
 Kelly Barnes / The Carpentries / she/her
 Kate Hertweck / perceived pronouns
Pao Corrales / she/her
Alexander Konovalov / he,him / University of St Andrews, Scotland




Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Karen

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Trisha: we tried out an 'elevator pitch' exercise for The Carpentries. It was fun and engaging, would improve background understanding of what an Elevator Pitch is if we try it again.
- Sarah S: taught twice in 2 months, same sections, not the sections I normally teach. Morning instead of afternoons. Last time I taught the mornings I struggled a lot. Then decided to teach them more to get better at them (growth mindset!). Both new instructors wanted to teach the afternoons anyway. MUch more confident now in ability to string together the educational psychology. Still struggling a little with the second half day, ran out of time with 2 teaching practices, usually shring down preparing to teach. Talk a little about diverse experiences but usually cut there a lot as well. Haven't figured out how to make that work timing wise. One of the other changes Trisha made was to do free-writing at the end where they write about their teaching philosophy. Maybe a good third option with concept maps and worksheets at the end.
- Kelly: how was half/full/half schedule?
- Sarah: worked well. Divided homework well. Logistics and checkout separated well. Might have been easier to fit into my schedule than 4 half days but haven't tried that schedule yet. It is nice compared to 2 full days.
- Trisha: did receive one comment that it forced the 90 second feedback and live coding exercise on the same day.
- Sarah: yeah, losing the 90 second activity on the first day is maybe not good. Some people are scared of the demo and feels like a lot of homework the first night. Alleviated some issues and caused others. No strong feelings for/against this schedule, did it because we did it this way last year.
- Kelly: found 4 day schedule kind of disruptive, hard to work after teaching.
- Kari: Have been thinking about during conversations with like-minded organizations is getting a sense of whether or not participants are going to teach for us. Wondering if you have thoughts on that, were there conversations around this, was there a sense of excitement about going through checkout and preparing to teach, or did you get a sense that people were there to get the skills to apply them in other ways.
- Sarah: Still not sure... I think Trisha's elevator pitch might generate some buy-in that might help but we don't know if that's true or not. It did feel like they were really advocating for The Carpentries and it felt like they bought in. We had one learner who felt like they were there because they had to be, didn't seem like they wanted to be there. Had more experience teaching and weren't really interested in changing. It was kind of a weird situation. I think it was ok, redirected confrontational attitudes, raised important parts of what they said, but it was surprising to see someone who didn't want to be there.
- Kate: realized I taught last month during trainer meeting! An attendee messaged me and asked to be placed in a second breakout group because someone in their original group made them feel bad (almost verbatim). Asked not to say anything/be discreet. Responded back to ask if there was anything else we could do, of course we can switch you because we usually switch people around but let me know if you end up in the same room again (didn't share the name), seems like the situation was resolved. Seems worth bringing this up that it happens in IT. Not sure if the messaging about CoC is useful for this -- didn't seem like enough information to file a report
- Sarah S: After experiencing the attendee being slightly confrontational, I was careful about which breakout rooms I put them in, because I knew people who were confident with The Carpentries could handle them. We don't always have so much information to go on. Have had people report on minute cards that their breakout room wasn't great for them, but also weren't being super explicit.
- Kelly: We tried to keep breakouts the same to build trust and feedback but got thanks for changing the breakouts implying that one wasn't that great.
- Karen: people like staying and like shuffling... I try to find a midpoint
- Kari: did you inquire about CoC any further?
- Kate: gently - they seemed to just want it resolved without further action.
- Alex: was it possible they knew each other?
- Kate: unlikely they were geographically distributed.

## Announcements
- Trainer Training applications are open! https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/04/trainer-training/
- We need people to review Trainer applications during the April 23-26 window. Fully asynchronous and time flexible (within the window). Contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org) if you can help!
- We are not sure if we will run another Trainer Training in 2021, so if you know someone who wants to apply this year, tell them not to wait.
- Serah is interested in assembling a collaborative blog post on responding to difficult feedback as an Instructor. Interested in helping out? Contact Serah (serah@carpentries.org).
- Things are happening on the Trainers GitHub repo. Check them out!
- Trainers Leadership is striving for maximum transparency. Keep tabs on their progress!
- Discussions enabled! This is a great place to propose ideas or ask questions that are not a perfect match for Issues on the IT curriculum repo. Examples include questions, proposals related to policy, or fundamental changes to what we teach that demand discussion and further development before we can consider implementation.
- Reminder: teaching tips for Instructors can be submitted for our Newsletter using this form: https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
## Topic of the month: more on curriculum updates!
- Curriculum update schedule overview:
- May 6: complete draft ready for Trainer review, engagement, and testing
- June 7: revisions ready for Trainer Training
- ASAP/July: polished and ready for merge & version release
- Existing PRs and how to engage with them
- https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215/files
- https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pulls
- Not a curriculum update, but comments wanted on this "recipe" for an online workshop: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training-bonus-modules/pull/35. Note the goal is to create a simplest-possible example that will work, leaving comprehensive review of alternatives to the Recommendations and other resource documents.
- Alex: Discussed including information on MS Teams, maybe as a call out
- Mateusz: We do not include a link to the etherpad in the workshop website because sometimes people share personal information in the etherpad and we don't want people to have access to it outside of the workshop.


# Trainer Meeting April 15, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210415T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Mark Laufersweiler he,him with Kelly Barnes thanks to Daniel Chen (post: https://laufers.github.io/2021-03-15-ttt-online-CDT/)
- Mark: Like the 4 day over the 2 full days. Not as stressed or tired in the middle of the second day. It can be harder for faculty schedules etc - would be interested to see if it would work better more distributed over weeks. Great to get back to teaching. Tried to keep rooms the same but also mix up. Trust is hard to establish for feedback. Would move to mix up the rooms on the half day. They were glad when we did mix up the rooms, gives them an opportunity to intermingle and meet others in the cohort.
- Concept map and mental model was still a struggle, as always. Homework or pre-work... back when Greg taught this they had to do concept maps prior. Can we revisit this? Go over homework at the beginning.
- Darya and Brian (2020 https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rEf3-fAALGww6jzX5LYN6gY6sz9dhxhH9DhPyX48mwI/edit#slide=id.g95fffb667e_0_0) did have them do concept maps as homework.
- Sara and Brian went with task decomposition https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/discussions/97 instead of concept maps, to reduce cognitive load.
- Kelly: Using google slides for concept maps didn't really work well because of cognitive load of figuring out how to do it there.
- 4 day schedule was really disruptive for the whole week, hard to do work after teaching.
- Mark: took them a while to warm up but were into participating by the end of the first day. Positive feedback, no major complaints other than wishing for more time on things. Had to throw out a section on the fly because of a great discussion going on an activity, didn't want to stop them. One person had to drop out due to connectivity.
- Kelly: skipping material was demotivating.
- Jordan Pedersen - she/her - post-discussion (with Sarah Stevens)
- First time teaching, we used the etherpad (with a populated etherpad for instructors that included the participants names so that we could copy and paste them into the participants etherpad so they didn't type over one another)
- We used google slides also for mental models, was not super but wasn't bad either, mixed levels of comfort with slides
- Ran out of time which was to be expected, cut things like the github repository (which Sarah offered as a separate session for anyone who was interested)
- They requested preparation time in advance of the workshop for all teaching demo experiences.
- Brian: I don't think we can ever give them enough time to prepare for live coding. We gave them a week and they were still anxious. We can't use the word prepare because they don't know what it means. Some ask if they are supposed to make slides. Just ask them to read the lesson.
- Liz: Managing anxiety as a specific thing in our prep emails is important.
- Jordan: I think the root of that comment comes from the anxiety around teaching. Maybe I can give them 15 mins at the end of the day to stay and ask questions.
- Mark: "Read and make yourself familiar with the content of the lesson."
- Brian: We may want to dramatically reduce the number of lessons/episodes we recommend to them. Like maybe we present openrefine for the less technical and then bash and a programming language.
- Daniel Chen, he/him post discussion - https://chendaniely.github.io/2021-04-12-ttt-online-PDT/ https://k8hertweck.github.io/2021-03-02-ttt-online-NNLM/
- I did a few this quarter. Some of the feedback we got was as we were advertising the workshop, mention that they block off another hour for demo prep.
- Our workshop was over 4 days. They wanted more breaks so for the last two days I tried to finish 5 minutes before the scheduled end time for each section. I got around that by skipping exercises, but we would spend a lot of time on the exercises we did do. For some we would have them take 5 mins to write their thoughts in the etherpad.
- They really liked the etherpad and wanted to know how they could use it in their own work. So we pointed them to wikimedia etherpad and HackMD. (Note. There were some comments in the trainers chat about cognitive load for teaching markdown during a workshop.)

**Others attending**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton, he/him, Macquarie Uni, Australia (Discussion of task deconstruction if we have time - https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/discussions/97 -- can also give feedback about grouping-strategies)
 - Masami Yamaguchi / she/her/Griffith University, Australia
- Kelly Barnes, she/her, The Carpentries
- Ariel Deardorff, she/her, UC San Francisco Library, USA
- Zac Painter, Stanford University, USA
- Liz Stokes, she/her, ARDC, Australia
- Amanda Charbonneau, she/her, UC Davis
- Mike Trizna / he, him / Smithsonian Institution
- Jeff Oliver / he, him / University of Arizona
- Mark Crowe / he, him/ QCIF, Australia


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

**Notetaker:**

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
## Announcements
- Trainer Training applications are open! https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/04/trainer-training/
- We need people to review Trainer applications during the April 23-26 window. Fully asynchronous and time flexible (within the window). Contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org) if you can help!
- You will receive two spreadsheets: one with names, and one with applications and no names. You can review as many as you have time for.
- We aren't sure if we are going to run a 2nd trainer training in 2021, so if people want to apply this year, they should do it now.
- Serah is interested in assembling a collaborative blog post on responding to difficult feedback as an Instructor. Interested in helping out? Contact Serah (serah@carpentries.org).
- Things are happening on the Trainers GitHub repo ( https://github.com/carpentries/trainers ). Check them out!
- Trainers Leadership is striving for maximum transparency. Keep tabs on their progress!
- Discussions ( https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/discussions ) enabled! This is a great place to propose ideas or ask questions that are not a perfect match for Issues on the IT curriculum repo. Examples include questions, proposals related to policy, or fundamental changes to what we teach that demand discussion and further development before we can consider implementation.
- Reminder: teaching tips for Instructors can be submitted for our Newsletter using this form: https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
## Topic of the month: more on curriculum updates!
- Not a curriculum update, but comments wanted on this "recipe" for an online workshop: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training-bonus-modules/pull/35. Note the goal is to create a simplest-possible example that will work, leaving comprehensive review of alternatives to the Recommendations and other resource documents.
- Curriculum update schedule overview:
- May 6: complete draft ready for Trainer review, engagement, and testing
- June 7: revisions ready for Trainer Training
- ASAP/July: polished and ready for merge & version release
- Existing PRs and how to engage with them
- https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215/files
- https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pulls
