# Trainer meeting, March 4, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210304T14

**Apologies:** Aleks Nenadic

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Mike Trizna
- Christina Koch
- Mateusz Kuzak (not pro/post but *possibly* connected question)
**Others attending**
 - Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, sarah.stevens@wisc.edu
 - Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org
 - Margareth Gfrerer, Higher Education Strategy Center, Addis Ababa; margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Angela Li (she/hers), Princeton University, al49@princeton.edu
 - Mateusz Kuzak (he/him), the Netherlands eScience Center
- Christina Koch (she/her), University of Wisconsin - Madison
 - Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech, chend@vt.edu
 - Mike Trizna (he/him), Smithsonian Institution, triznam@si.edu
- David Pérez-Suárez (he/him), University College London, d.perez-suarez@ucl.ac.uk
- Alexander Konovalov (he/him), University of St Andrews, alexander.konovalov@st-andrews.ac.uk
 - Sarah Brown , Univeristy of Rhode Island,
- Karen Word (she/her), The Carpentries, krword@carpentries.org
- Bianca Peterson (she/her), North-West University, bianca.peterson777@gmail.com
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries, tobyhodges@carpentries.org
- Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries, kbarnes@carpentries.org

**Notetaker:**  Karen

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Mike Trizna: back-to-back comparison 2 full day vs in-house smithsonian 4 half days with 3 Trainers - the latter was SO much better. So much easier to juggle with 3 people. 4 half day helped with zoom fatigue -- we were losing people by the end of the day. We had people from Europe in a Central time zone workshop, so felt bad about that they were going past midnight. Alll for 4 half day.
- Schedule: trying to convert the lesson times exactly we didn't really change anything. We ended up with extra time on days 2 and 4 because no lunchbreak. Finished 4PM Friday for Smithsonian and were able to do a happy hour, very heartwarming.
- Here's our schedule: https://smithsonianworkshops.github.io/2021-02-16-si-instructor-training/#schedule
- GitHub issue for schedule comments: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1177
- NOTE: we need a better plan for handling community-members who stumble upon our Zoom link and enter the meeting who are not Trainers. Sarah Brown suggests we enable waiting rooms. We should definitely know who has host before starting the meeting.
- Christina: Larger group, over 20, really glad to be teaching with Melissa who used lots of breakouts, really important for this class size. Melissa prepared blank google slides for people to make concept maps in. This gave people their own space to put things and was a good digital solution. Teaching 1st section on mental models and expertise. I realize I've gone away from tying it back to Carpentries concepts because I want to do that more specifically. Going back to exploring the mental model you are trying to convey, letting people reflect on the content they are teaching instead of getting caught up in the mechanics, getting them to dwell on the big picture and explore their own mental models of the subject.
- Used a spreadsheet - would be nice to get an official one with times and formulas.
- Links from Christina's training w/ Melissa:
- workshop page (w/ schedule): https://christinalk.github.io/2021-02-01-ttt-online-PST/
- this is a good example of a day when there were a lot of breakouts but also some "share on the doc" type exercises: https://docs.google.com/document/d/15wbg2r9T-XBOEllXgJDWya4B7VEYDHMDa2UlDEbgO_Q/edit#heading=h.sb13swrlhhfb
- You can also see the results of the breakout groups using a shared whiteboard!
- Mateusz: has anyone tried out digital whiteboards or miro
- Angela has used Google Jamboard before. It's kind of like a whiteboard, more like a stickynote board. Not sure if it's as good for drawing maps.
- Thinking about different exercises. Mostly our workshop was designed in-person, and if we had better tools maybe se could get it to function better.
- Melissa used the 'annotate' option at some point
- When do you use breakouts vs google doc writing?
- Christina: time considerations. If I think people are going to have very different answers I often use a breakout to let them has those out.
- Is there a minimnum time for breakouts? 10? 15?
- When people get used to breakouts, you can start using them faster because they are used to coming and going.
- Do you keep the same people in the room? Does this get more efficient? Maybe?
- Deploy breakouts to keep people engaged, when you aren't sure that people are engaged
- Do Trainers go in the rooms? Sometimes. At first especially.
- Using google slides allows you to snoop on their work while they are in breakout rooms. You can move through the slides, if you ask them to share they will overlap and be redundant, but when you present it you can cut the sharing time down by a lot relative to what the learners can do on their own (classroom experience that can apply to IT)
- Mateusz: In our instructors we are doing a study group reading Small Teaching. Reading, discussing and thinking about how to apply. One thing we want to try out more, things like how to we track this recall or predictive things. Quick questions to the audience. E.g. before a break or after coming back. Can you list all the commands that deal with files? SOmething very short. How do you collect it where do we put it (overloaded lessons... too many exercises... everyone will say no..) a lot of instructors do this naturally. Having this written down will help us use it more consistently and improve our practices.
- Toby: have seen that some lessons have a "more exercises" extras tab. Could maybe adopt this more widely. The kinds of things Mateusz is suggesting is quite specific. Having a bank of exercises has come in really handy, especially for members of the audience who have a bit more prior knowledge. It might be a good idea to try to formalize. Quick questions might fit best in the Instructor Notes for the time being. Looking at e.g. adding a Lesson Design extra at the moment, could consider other Extras. Will raise the issue with Zhian.
- Sarah B. Could there be that we just add another request to the lesson infrastructure team to facilitate addition of these things.
- Toby: views for Instructor and Learner, formative assessment boxes could show up in Instructor view only.
## Announcements
- We are still working on updates to our approach to sponsoring Instructor Training events. However, if you are anxious to plan a sponsored event during Q3 (April - June), now is the time to inquire.
- Contribute your favorite teaching tips for the next Carpentries Clippings Newsletter! https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
- Core Team 'retreat' next 2 weeks
## Topic of the month (if time allows): curriculum updates
- Structural changes drafted:
- merging mental models & concept maps
- mindset -> motivation, EIA content -> standalone
- The first two can be viewed as diffs in the PR on our main repository: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215/files
- diminishing Bloom's emphasis
- Trim Introductions, add Conclusions
- How We Operate updates; workshop website -> Preparing to Teach
- The last 3 can be viewed as diffs in PRs on the Sandbox repo: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pulls
- Global edits to come
- Addressing as many issues as possible!
- Identifying first steps on blocked topics
- demos policy
- CoC policy
- figure maintenance

# Trainer Meeting March 4, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210304T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton (in middle of 8-session training, https://mq-software-carpentry.github.io/2021-03-01-ttt-online-AEST/ https://denubis.github.io/instructor-training-8-sessions-2021/ with Sara and with Megan helping)
- Anne Fouilloux https://zbmed.github.io/2021-02-25-ttt-online-GMT/
- Kelly Barnes and Mark Laufersweiler, March 15-18 https://laufers.github.io/2021-03-15-ttt-online-CDT
- Matthias Liffers (just about to deliver 4/4 session (https://annbackhaus.github.io/2021-02-22-ttt-online/)

**Others attending**
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona, jcoliver@arizona.edu
- Zac Painter, Stanford University, zwp@stanford.edu
- Murray Cadzow (he/him), University of Otago, murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
- Amanda Charbonneau (she/her), University of California Davis
- Mark Laufersweiler (he/him) , University of Oklahoma Lirbaries, laufers@ou.edu
- Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries, kbarnes@carpentries.org
- Megan Guidry (she/her), New Zealand eScience Infrastructure, megan.guidry@nesi.org.nz
- Sara King (she/her), AARNet, sara.king@aarnet.edu.au
- Masami Yamaguchi (she/her), Griffith University, m.yamaguchi@griffith.edu,au
- Ariel Deardorff (she/her), University of California, San Francisco, ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu
- Kate Hertweck (perceived pronouns), Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center, k8hertweck@gmail.com)
- Liz Stokes (she/her), Australian Research Data Commons, liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au
- Tim Dennis (he/him), UCLA, timdennis@ucla.edu
- Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF, mark.crowe@qcif.edu.au
- Paula Andrea Martinez, ReSA
- Matthias Liffers (he/him), Australian Research Data Commons, m@tthi.as

Reminder to host: claim 'host' in Zoom room and enable waiting rooms.
**Notetaker:** Jeff Oliver

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
- Name, location, favorite writing instrument etc.
- Barely avoided West Side Story reenactment between 0.5mm and 0.7mm camps, while conference pen fanatics cheered on the melee
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Brian:
- 8-session workshop (2nd time); good minute card feedback; easy to stay on time
- Takes place over four weeks (two 2-hour sessions per week)
- 3-4 participants with attendance issues
- Mix of membership & open
- See #trainers Slack channel for slides
- On Google Drive: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1i6fiJO-aJO3oMguR8d5KuFldTZTSSynT
- Keeping track of how much time it actually takes to teach each episode
- Have 25 participants, so having a helper present is critical
- Grouping participants by geographical proximity (when possible)
- Sara:
- Good to work with experienced trainer (Brian)
- Trainees are nervous about teaching online
- Megan:
- Slide decks have been very useful
- Planning on doing same format for upcoming New Zealand training session
- Karen: will need to consider trying more of this format (8 week) in 2021 Q3
- Anne:
- Two-day format, not too tiring
- With K. Förstner
- Participants happy with timing
- Two no-shows, two cancellations
- Learned lesson on how (not) to handle pronoun preference issues
- Kelly:
- Called in as back-up trainer today!
- Teaching with Mark L. starting March 15 in four day format
- Mark L:
- Planning now, dividing up responsibilities
- Considering using slide decks, depending teaching style and content
- Matthias:
- In the middle of training session
- "Not as bad as I feared it would be."
- Could have used breakout rooms more
- Difficult to assess how engaged participants are in material ("Resting Zoom face" - LS)
- Using the training not just for Instructor Training, but also networking opportunity.
- Brian:
- Breakout rooms useful for engagement, even with short (7 minute) exercises.
- Karen:
- It takes a few times to get participants used to the breakout room format, but as the training goes on, they can be used for shorter exercises
## Announcements
- Carptentries Core team on retreat next week (response times may be a bit longer than usual)
- We are still working on updates to our approach to sponsoring Instructor Training events. However, if you are anxious to plan a sponsored event during Q3 (April - June), now is the time to inquire.
- Have a form now, but revisiting the process
- Want to have these sponsored events scheduled along with other instructor training events
- New leadership team elected
- Farewell to Brian, Mark L., & Tim
- Welcome to Amanda, Mark C., & Jeff (and Sarah & Arin)
- Contribute your favorite teaching tips for the next Carpentries Clippings Newsletter! https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
## Topic of the month (if time allows): curriculum updates
- https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training
- Structural changes drafted:
- merging mental models & concept maps
- Replacing Python example with more accessible/every day example
- mindset -> motivation, EIA content -> standalone
- diminishing Bloom's emphasis
- Trim Introductions, add Conclusions
- How We Operate updates; workshop website -> Preparing to Teach
- Lots of room for revision here
- Global edits to come
- Addressing as many issues as possible!
- Identifying first steps on blocked topics
- demos policy
- CoC policy
- figure maintenance
- Teaching demos policy
- Liz: Some trainees recently used Obsproject (obsproject.com); will follow up in Slack
