
## Trainer Meeting, 2 November 2023, UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231102T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231102T14) 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Kelly and Jake
* ok ok Karen will say a few words about NASA
* Fredo (on emergent collaboration)

**Others attending:**   



* Kari L. Jordan
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Grace Fishbein (she/her), ACENET, Memorial University of Newfoundland
* Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries 
* Philipp Schäfer (he/him), zedif, Friedrich Schiller University, Jena
* Jannetta Steyn, she/her/hers, Newcastle University, UK
* Yani Bellini Saibene, she/her/ella, Argentina, rOpenSci
* Hao (he/him), University of Pennsylvania
* Trisha Adamus, (she/her), University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Pao Corrales (she/her), Argentina
* Fredo Erxleben (whatever you like), HZDR, Dresden, Germany
* Karen Word (she/her) The Carpentries
* 
* 
* 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre/post discussions
* Spreadsheet (designed by Jake?) helps cut down on cognitive load when teaching! Has all episodes and time it is supposed to take, put start time in and as you go can adjust time episode took, which readjusts all start times. Only problem is it overwrites original time so you can't see difference/how far off you are
* Grace: I'm on a half hour offset, so it is especially difficult to juggle time. Having Jake change times for me when teaching was also awesome. 
* Appreciate when people recognize that half-hour offset
* Hao: reminds me of speed running tools
* Kelly: first time tried to use slides, found it overwhelming and difficult to keep track of. Without slides find it's hard for trainees to find anything to anchor to visually. A lot of us do use slides, may be useful to have a more official set of slides. 
* Yani: online or in person?
* Kelly: have only taught this training online! Many screens, windows, zoom moving things around when you screen share, plus math
* Karen: we probably do't have aofficial set of slides because of mantainance of the material. If I don't use slides I focus people attention to the etherpad, I shared the secreen with the etherpad at the begining so I show people where they should focus. We do have some slide decks in the google drive though I think.
* Mark: Maybe a good task from a trainer or trainers  who cannot teach and needs to keep their active status .
* Karen: 1 day workshop for teaching practises for NASA TOPs. They weren't interested on certified. They didn't have very clear about the curriculumn they will have to teach.  They want to know more how we teach the "How to teach". 
* Sarah: I guess that seems like a parallel to the tech workshops to me - live coding and then hand-on activities. Do you think something from trainer training would be helpful then? Since we talk about teaching IT at trainer training?
* Karen; how we facilited this discussion, what are the key points. 
* Sarah: Interesting point that many are learning to teach IT by doing it with a theoretical base from Trainer training readings and discussions.
* Hao: It makes sense to me that there might be a gap here - instructor training is very practically-oriented at teaching Carpentries workshops and using material that is pretty well-tested already and has a narrowly defined structure;
* The description of the setup at NASA TOPS suggests to me that there is a need for something more like applying pedagogical principles to the material (that maybe is more loosely structured relative to Carpentries lessons) and to be effective in teaching that material.
* So a target skill might be something more like "how do you read this given curriculum from NASA TOPS central, and identify the learning objectives, and understand the failure modes / key success metrics when teaching it"
* Maybe some target skills also involve contributing feedback / improvements to the curriculum as well (which perhaps involves a bit of community organization and ~curriculum~ lesson development training)
* Fredo: emergent collaboration. We have trainings that are split across lunch, switched from Zoom to Gathertown. Participants have a lot of agency and can control where they are in videoconference, who they talk to. They are getting used to this tool and they start to collaborate by themselvese without being prompted by the instructor. Completely random groups of participants tend to form their own groups to help each other with the exercises without interventions. This makes instructor role easier! Role shifted to preparing and priming content, directing groups a little to have groups talk to each other. 
* Yani: I used for some conference and the problem was the requerimient fro internet conection reliable and high badwith.
* Announcements
* Community Survey  - Closes November 13 [https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdpUX5zsStvfVSWCEokWTCpEd2j37y7_4zyWEBOTN9YPZdbtg/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdpUX5zsStvfVSWCEokWTCpEd2j37y7_4zyWEBOTN9YPZdbtg/viewform)
* Reminder we will be sending out the 2024 Q1 scheduling poll THIS week (today!)
* Community sessions
*  modeling/ improv demos Friday, 17 November at 14:00 UTC
* Benefits of live coding (UTC) Tuesday 07 November 2023 17:00 PM
*  [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023)
* Topic of the month: continuing demos discussion. Bring your suggestions!
* Github discussion: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/discussions/1610](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/discussions/1610)
* Kari: wondering if anyone can talk about fears of failing the demo participants. 
* Yani: when you are already in a demo and you find yourself in that situation, we should ideally not get to that situation during the demo. Ideally solve this before. One thing Carpentries has in our capital is that we are good at teaching, and live coding is important. Don't feel that I'm failing someone, just helping them to become a very good teacher to help them do the demo well. Why did they get there? Maybe we need to review how we are teaching them. It was stressful for me when I became an instructor because I felt it was an exam. Practiced several times during the training, provided feedback and improved. Had been through it several times. Do we need to be more explicit about practice when we teach?
* Sarah: not so much fear of asking to repeat but effort of managing feelings and supporting without demotivating them.
* Kelly: something else I've seen in these conversations is it's not so much fear as it is ambiguity around when. People question their judgement about whether they should be asking to repeat. 
* Karen: think anxiety is useful, conversations are useful, calibration is useful
* Mark: there is a piece that is following directions. Are our directions clear, findable, discoverable? Also we should never call it failing, only ask to repeat and emphasize practice element.  Couldn't mind holding a demo if someone just wants to practice live demo. 
* Fredo: a lot revolves around phrasing or framing. If we say this is a practice session. maybe we shouldn't call it a live demo, just a group practice session that ends in 2 ways -- you are ready to go out and teach, we have faith that you can do it right now, or we can ask you to practice again. Maybe putting more agency into learners hands -- ask what they think, if they would like to practice again. Relieve some of the stress, create some more emotionally safe space
* Pao: What if they say they are ready when they aren't? The people who often think they are good enough are the ones who aren't, often have many years of experience teaching and think they know how to do it. People who are great often think they need to keep practicing.
* What if we get a lot of repeats?
* Karen
* Yani: maybe remind them that they can assume that previous content has been well taught and they are starting wherever the episode actually starts. They are trying to give too much context for previous lessons, don't waste time doing that.


## Trainer Meeting 2 November 2023, UTC 23:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231102T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231102T23)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**


* Jake Szamosi (post), McMaster University
* Karen Word (She/her) The Carpentries
* Mark Crowe (post)

**Others attending:**   



*  Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
*  Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF
* Liz Stokes (she,them) ARDC Sydney who can't spell their own name apparently XD
* Paula Pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
* Sara King (she/her), AARNet 
* 
* 
* 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre/post discussion
* Timing sheet:
* color coding used for breaks not alternating
* one time zone has a number for start time and everything else is calculated based on time zone difference and duration.
* Can adjust duration while Kelly is teaching
* Want a column with original duration/times because once it's changed you don't know when it's supposed to be.
* Will share a link in the Trainers Slack
* Other features include tallies for each Trainer's total time teaching
* Can hide unnecessary columns
* Mark: we have durations set in lesson information. Not seen anyone recording to see if they are accurate or not. If a few people do this and average, we could see how long things really take
* One person in training that we weren't sure if they should repeat chunks - will discuss separately.
* Dont' understand why nobody understands how teaching demos work.
* Karen will copy spreadsheet to Google drive. Where/how to share with everyone?
* NASA training (see above for main recap)
* Liz: meta narrative is something we often end up talking about at some point during instructor training. Maybe there's a "how to make toast using a toaster" example. Generic enough to a lot of people, a common example in how to teach workflows. When people ask about what to practice with, suggest shell lesson because they probaly haven't seen it before and that's a good way to take the learner's perspective. Would love to get into a philosophical discussion about what TOPS is trying to teach, hear topics and discuss (similar to many groups here). Vs Carpentries we teach definable skills that you can do. Trying to get that level of satisfaction out of topics to discuss is kind of a fool's errand.
* Paula: Smithsonian training upcoming. If you have to adjust and cut, do you adjust within a block of 4 hours so if you have already divided it you take care of it and not pass it off
* Karen - most important thing is communicion. often try to make up my own time - to be a decent person to my cotrainer. But if it's a session that we both know we can often take time out of then I'll check in with my co trainer and see if we can do that. 
* Mark - tend to bring it back within our own sections. We have people who do seperate sections that are divided between breaks, is that having the breaks consistent, so sometimes it might be a 'ok we're going to finish this after the break with an extra ten minutes, so the next person has a bit of time to work out what they need to adjust'.
* Sara: if you have the wherewithal it's good to know those "crumple zones" beforehand. Sometimes you do end up having a really good conversation going and knowing when you can go for it is helpful. Not good to cut off conversations when they're really going well..
* Liz: the reason why I end up having crumple zones is I've gotten nervous and end up trying to explain more. Trusting in the material and the techniques we are teaching -- explain a little but when in doubt don't try to explain more, put people into the activity and come back to see if it works. Having that curiosity helps separate and prevent time-stretching explanations.
* Announcements
* Community Survey  - Closes November 13 [https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdpUX5zsStvfVSWCEokWTCpEd2j37y7_4zyWEBOTN9YPZdbtg/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdpUX5zsStvfVSWCEokWTCpEd2j37y7_4zyWEBOTN9YPZdbtg/viewform)
* Reminder we will be sending out the 2024 Q1 scheduling poll THIS week (today!)
* Community sessions
*  modeling/ improv demos Friday, 17 November at 14:00 UTC
* Benefits of live coding (UTC) Tuesday 07 November 2023 17:00 PM
*  [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023)
* Topic of the month
* continuing demos discussion. Bring your suggestions!
* Github discussion: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/discussions/1610](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/discussions/1610)
* Jake: Request received at every instructor training or demo is "can we please see someone do this before we have to do it?"
* Probably we can't do our own demos monthly, but if this is recorded or we can send people to something, that would be great
* The YouTube videos we watch during the training seem like they should be that, but it doesn't seem to function that way
* Paula: maybe we can just demonstrate instead of playing the video, and use that to point to good and bad teaching, using some elements from the rubric?  
* Jake: not all Trainers teach technical workshops, so some might not be super comfortable with that. It doesn't seem like a huge ask, but if you're not in the habit it might be.
* Mark: we seem to kind of do that anyway. The final live coding acitivity is essentially a 3-minute demo. They are doing exactly what they need to do during the training. 
* Sara: we recently did an in-person training and one of the differencese between the videos that we use is people wanting to see how it works on Zoom. Wht would potentially work is a brady-bunch video in zoom rather than a live coding video with someone standing up. Also people seem to learn more from videos than reading. so that will have more impact than instructions.
* Mark: Is it that people don't know what to expect or that they don't know what to do? We don't want to make them watch a Trainer and tell them what to do. Everybody has their own right way as long as they use Carpentries principles.
* Paula: And that is one of the things that come up, that they have very small font for example, in zoom. So that is a good point, it is probably not the same things to have in to account to teach in zoom or in person
* Jake: if they are only teaching 5 minutes and not necessarily at the beginning, how do they set the stage, how much background do they give? Also uncertain about how to teach Carpentries curriculum. MOre people make up their own code, etc. Confusion about 'how do we do this' - not what to expect but not even knowing how to start on the demo.
* Mark: we did discuss at most recent training how closely you need to follow the script. Answer was if you don't follow the script it's going to come back and bite you with dependencies. Justifying why we do things the way we do.
* Jeff: referring back to discussions of crumple zones and sticking to the script: this is a symptom, what's the cause? Does this get skipped in Instructor Training? Do the demos get skipped? I prioritize the demos.Are there commonalities in people who don'g get it?
* Liz: what if this is ok? What if this is what we need to hear from people? What if we expect that people want to see an example -- of course they do -- but I think what we're talking about is the point of people addressing their learning. We can be concerned about their anxieties about getting it right, that is also part of becoming an Instructor, and it is resolved by giving a demo? Less about people wanting to get through the first time by the skin of their teeth, and changing the picture to make it more about we want to give you a license so we know you won't crash. It's an improtant check and you'll only know when you're doing it right if you're doing it right.
