# Trainer meeting, June 4  UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200604T14 

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Aleks Nenadic (will do my best to join but we are running a DC workshop at the same time)
- Kari Jordan 


****Others attending****   
- Angelique van Rensburg
- Kelly Barnes 
- Serah Rono
- Kari Jordan
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Lex Nederbragt
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Elizabeth Williams
- Karen Word
- Konrad Förstner
- Maneesha Sane
- Sher! Hurt
- Robert Davey


****Apologies****
- Toby Hodges - I'll be at the Turing Institute's "Challenging Power in Data Science" webinar (https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/challenging-power-in-data-science-tickets-105238272506), which starts at the same time
Paola Corrales 

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion

****Aleks Nenadic:****
- Feedback document: https://github.com/edcarp/2020-05-28-ttt-edinburgh/blob/gh-pages/FEEDBACK.md
- key mistakes / areas to improve based on feedback
- using live coding instead of live-teaching as a time
- 15 minute breaks not enough - worked with 30 minutes
- 5pm a bit late to close - ended at 4.30 instead to curb Zoom fatigue
- good feedback around time keeping and sticking to schedule (find this in feedback doc)
- concern about privacy + GDPR in sharing email addresses in Etherpad, and having those saved publicly after demo sessions
- challenge over using breakout rooms and finding information shared in main room chat - people felt lost in breakout rooms for a while
- end of day 1 and day 2 exercises - live coding exercises done on day one rather than the last day
- exercises took longer than scheduled for - prompts from main room not very effective. Discovered Zoom countdown timer after training
- revisit time set aside for exercises?
- ask if others have experienced need for more time for exercises in Instructor Training sessions
- concept maps and mental models
- not enough examples to draw a distinction between these
- people articulated need for more time
- I wonder if concept map and mental models could be put together in one lesson and save some time for other things? As concept maps are just externalised mental models.
- Input from other trainers

****Kari:****
- Feedback Document: https://github.com/kariljordan/2020-05-28-ttt-online-EDT/blob/gh-pages/FEEDBACK.MD
- faced a lot of challenges similar to Alek's i.e. timing
- On mental models and concept maps
- has practiced a lot more and did a good jon
- think of mental models as being from the perspective of the learner
- think of concept maps as being from the perspective of the instructor
- i.e. use concept maps to figure out / decide what to prioritise in a workshop from entire set of resources available
- Kari previously thought of mental models as building blocks for concept maps, but feels above explanation, inspired by Christina, is more accurate
- Kelly Barnes was present too, and reinforced a lot of the pedagogy that we cover, Kari appreciates this
- Kari and Christina covered Bloom's Taxonomy, but wasn't able to cover Faded examples

Mark:
- Took instructor training w/ Greg - he introduced concept maps by asking people to map something familiar to them i.e. your journey to the grocery store. Helped reinforce the concept
- is it possible to ask people to work on their first draft of concept maps before they come to IT? 

Kelly:
- struggled with the concept map exercise - 
- felt stuck in the time it needed to be done
- part of it included a breakout room exercise - the breakout room ask wasn't very clear

Aleks:
- I also remember Greg saying that we should use out best judgement and context to decide what to teach from the IT curriculum - it is not possible to cover everything.
- google doc with all exercises in it, and copied over to chat as the sessions progress -  that might help, will try and report back
- Karen will move this discussion to Discourse for other people's input

### Announcements
- Discourse ( https://forum.carpentries.org/ ): 
- Status
- continuing to use this on an experimental basis
- Have people joined? 
- trainers group is private, and Karen Word would need to add you
- If so, what are your thoughts on using it? Add comments to the notes. :)
- Changes to how install / setup instructions are handled on workshop website template
- PR is under review by Maintainers and Lesson Infrastructure Committee: https://github.com/carpentries/workshop-template/pull/664
- Goal is to make it easier for instructors to set up their workshop website and for learners to find the correct install instructions
- Should "just work" - will send out an announcement when things go live. Please contact ebecker@carpentries.org
- Bonus Module (online training)
- https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/instructor-training-bonus-modules/
- Trainers input is very welcome, content design is WIP i.e. 
- for the Zoom section
- E. Wickes' table from the Task Force work that informed the start of this pilot is in the extras section, as it hasn't been decided where to fit it
- feedback would be very useful ahead of the pilot
- module is about online training, but approach will trancend our current need, and be applied across Carpentries' initiatives such as Code of Conduct enforcement

### Topic of the month: sharing experiences expanding inclusivity and supporting work against oppression in your communities. 
Karen:
- ackowledges the situation in the US is difficult, but not unique to that region- injustices like this are happening around the world
Kari
- thanks to everyone for willingness to engage in this conversation
- Carpentries has been at the forefront of allyship over the years, but not taken strong action in the past, given we are not a social justice org
- got a question from a community member: Is there any way we can sponsor a targeted call for participation or an award fund to increase representation in coding communities?
- we can act within our realm of influence
- 50% of funding from workshops is for underserved communities according to our website. There is no clear workflow for community members in underserved communities to apply for that funding yet, look out for that in the next 4-6 weeks
Mark
- when the GitHub (and ICE) conversation came up, we didn't address it effectively
- need to start asking about inclusivity in terms of access to the tools we introduce to community members - even open source ones
- look at our lessons and have conversations around what needs to be migrated 
- start practicing our core values as far as our curriculum is concerned, and choose to work with resources / tools made by orgs that share our values
- Karen: sounds like Mark is talking about technical inclusivity
- Mark: in part - there is the political aspect of things, and that needs to be considered as well
- Angelique
- In SA, there is no access to laptops, connectivity in a lockdown
- SADILAR pays for accommodation and covers travel to help bypass this
- with covid-19, they are buying data for learners
- bigger questions still remain unanswered, like how to handle live-coding remotely
Karen: funding is definitely one of the bigger issues that need discussion
- Karen
- UC Davis program working to bring in diverse voices and be inclusive
- doesn't always work as seamlessly - it is really hard to find ways to bring people in
- in early years, work was done to get the work out to diverse communities - resulted in an increase in involvement by people of color - engagement is therefore an iportant start
- attempted to run Carpentries-ES workshops because there's a large spanish community in davis, this didn't work out - because it is an academic environment. Spanish speakers were prepared to teach, but there was no demand for these workshops.
- Aleks
- Quality of academic software and recent backlash in the UK around sharing software
- C code used to model COVID-19 (models)  by Prof. Ferguson - it was legacy code of poor quality
- code was used to give govt data that led to lockdowns across the UK - https://www.researchprofessionalnews.com/rr-news-uk-views-of-the-uk-2020-5-critique-software-but-understand-the-constraints-it-s-written-under/    
- Software Sustainability Institute had to address the confrontation academic software faced and comparison w/ industry software  https://twitter.com/ResFortnight/status/1263751741427912704
- Also addressed the fact that software is not widely recognised as a research output in academia, which presents an added challenge
- Karen
- https://twitter.com/daniela_witten/status/1268392721275744256 - example of how it can be difficult to effect change in academia,
- let's continue to think creatively about what we can do



# Trainer Meeting June 4, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200604T22

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Christina K. - https://kariljordan.github.io/2020-05-28-ttt-online-EDT/
- Murray Cadzow 
- Sarah Stevens and Angela Li (pre) - https://uc-carpentries.github.io/2020-06-08-ttt-uchicago/

****Others attending****   
- Ann Backhaus
- Paula Andrea Martinez
- Sara King
- Liz Stokes
- Lex Nederbragt
- Sarah Brown
- Darya Vanichkina
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Samar Elsheikh 
- Ariel Deardorff
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Zac Painter
- Tim Dennis
- Karen Word

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion

### Announcements
- https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/05/2020-carpentrycon-at-home-proposals/
- Discourse ( https://forum.carpentries.org/ ): 
- Have people joined? 
- If so, what are your thoughts on using it? Add comments to the notes. :)
- Changes to how install / setup instructions are handled on workshop website template
- PR is under review by Maintainers and Lesson Infrastructure Committee:https://github.com/carpentries/workshop-template/pull/664
- Goal is to make it easier for instructors to set up their workshop website and for learners to find the correct install instructions
- Should "just work" - will send out an announcement when things go live. Please contact ebecker@carpentries.org
- Bonus Modules (online training)
- https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/instructor-training-bonus-modules/

### NOTES

- Recent trainings
- Murray, NZ training (may 11-12)
- Intense due to uncertainty about country's lockdown levels
- Lots of zoom fatigue - some people couldn't make it, others dropped out partway through
- Participants preferred breakout rooms to larger group discussions
- Side note: zoom randomization of rooms doesn't actually randomize that much
- Brian: can use randomize function
- As host, Murray moved helpers round to breakout rooms but stayed as host in the main room
- Karen: can co-hosts move themselves to breakout rooms? Murray: No. (endorsed by Christina)
- Ariel: do co-hosts get added to breakout rooms? Murray: created an extra room to place co-hosts (had ot place people manually), they then ignored the 
- Angela/Sarah, teaching *next* week (Mon/Tues) for UChicago
- Sarah: teaching same sections twice in a row which is a new experience. 
- Angela: reduce prep load if you were teaching familiar material - useful in these times!!
- Both excited about being able to re-teach same material and make changes and improve. 
- Darya: zoom fatigue is real! 
- go for refreshing breaks. Ask what they can see out their window, ask what they are looking forward to, ask what they hate about zoom meetings... showing off pets can be fun...
- Greg Wilson's "The unit of training is the bladder" - so sometimes on zoom I don't do the 1.5 hoursx4 sessions a day, instead doing every hour: 50 mins on, 10 mins off... +1 from Christina

### Announcements
- CC@ Home
- Scheduling; plan is for different sessions over a period of 6 weeks. Christina can try to clarify on the proposal repository
- Discourse
- Brian: has an RSS feed of activity from it -- which is quite helpful for general "keeping an eye on things"
- Bonus modules
- Offer feedback!!!!!

### Topic of the month: sharing experiences expanding inclusivity and supporting work against oppression in your communities.

- Recognition that while this topic is coming up because of what's happening on the US, in the future, want to make these discussions more inclusive of situations *around the world* as these issues are ongoing in many places and don't get the same amount of press but are important to discuss. 

- Prompt: share about your experiences expanding inclusivity and supporting work against oppression in your communities. 

- Ann Backhaus - Echoing Darya's comments re: REconciliaton week in Aus. There are a lot of events organised nationally and locally, and we try to encourage conversation and provide safe space for those conversations. (Am part of the D&I CoP)
- Sara King - US events have brought up again the injustices here in Australia regarding indigenous people, and that often our population knows more about what's happening internationally than what's happening at home because the local injustices just don't seem to make the news most of the time. There's been a lot of conversation in the knitting and craft community around the world since last year, and I'm really keen to keep supporting companies and people that make a stand - Ravelry for example has been showing great leadership there. SO much work to do everywhere - all corners of society, even the 'nice' ones like the knitters! And like Masami, we do an Acknowledgement to Country before all online training sessions.  +2 for the knitters! (Christina)
- Liz Stokes
- Sarah Brown
- my recent related efforts have been in reminding the Black students I supervise to take breaks from media and to care for themselves (and doign the same)
- I also relied on an ally who's less directly impacted to push an organization i'm affiliated with to revise their statement to be more inclusive
- and currently shwoing up and working right now is all I've got memory of for now
- Darya Vanichkina
- It's Reconciliation week in Australia (27 May - 3 June), so we have had conversations around this locally as well. One interesting proposal voiced was to rename many of our building on campus (some with the delightful name "F23") with their Gadigal placenames.
- I grew up in Russia, where police brutality is a norm. So I can relate to many of the experiences of avoiding police and making yourself (or  your friends/colleagues) appear harmless to avoid attracting attention. Lots of stories I've lived.
- Providing training is a form of resistance to me, as it provides the people who attend with transferrable skills they can use beyond their current roles and the expectations of their mentors, which are often related directly to research outcomes only. And going above and beyond to make sure that everyone learns as much as possible in that training is a personal action point - not just the people who best match the learner personas.
- Learning more and listening, and knowing that it's unfair to assume both that someone of a particular race has experienced oppression, and - conversely - that someone who presents as the "majority" race has not.
- Being careful with the datasets we choose for our training: a lot of people have advocated to use election fraud, corruption, COVID in their teaching, for example, because "it's relevant" - but for many learners these are not theoretical issues, but things that have affected their everyday life. I'd rather use more "boring" datasets that don't trigger learners' trauma. 
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Structuring in the welcome to country is an important part of my workshop planning, and I prioritise it above the code of conduct. It might be useful to have a structural requirement of giving a workshop a year in the bush as part of the university's contract, so there's a formal preference to taking real action, rather than having it viewed as a token thing. 
- I'm making a point of featuring aboriginal stories and art in the major project that I'm workng on with my institution -- making sure the image-banner representing us features local (and explicitly permitted by the artist) art, and making sure that we don't turn into an all "ancient northern hemiphere cultures" content-channel.
- Making pointed timing decisions around the largest population-centres around the world, rather than focusing on a US-centric time-slice, so that we can support under-served folk.
- Samar Elsheikh 
- +ve: I was attending an ISBI-IEEE conference in Washington DC. There was a dialy online newsletter every morning where some talk/poster presenters of the day are featuers. I wanted to get featured so much and was looking for the interviewer - when I found him he was so happy that he found me: I got interviewed and he told me he thought I would be a goot fit, because I was: Muslim+Black+African+Women in STEM :D
- My current institution, tries to recruit tutors from all over Africa who can also speak French or Arabic, from diverse backgrounds too, as well as international tutors.
- Ariel Deardorff
- Its a small thing but I have tried to be very purposeful about recruiting diverse instructors and helpers for our workshops after out first couple workshops had 60% female learners and 100% male instructors/helpers. There is definitely more we can do to ensure that our learners see themselves reflected in the instruction team.
- One of my colleague does a great job inserting social justice-related prompts into her classes. For example a class on data sharing might feature a researcher looking to share her research data on racial disparities in pregnancy outcomes (also to highlight real research topics at my institution)
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Before workshops/presentations starting, my university often acknowledge Aboliginals and Torres Strait Islanders.
- My university runs Harmony week in March, which embraces different cultures, language and so on, by running multiple events to celebrate diversity.
- Zac Painter
- We have had a lot of participants from other Stanford units that are not as well served, or perhaps can't be reached as easily, at some of our workshops. I have tried to be agnostic towards taking on some of these people, mostly because I realize we offer a service that can be difficult to find inexpensive or locally available help for. 
- Tim Dennis
- We had the opportunity to teach GIS and R to a class organized by Million Dollar Hoods a LA group dedicated to address the costs of mass incarceration in Los Angeles. The class was awesome and composed of students fromLA who were often directly affected by the theme of the class. This has led to some work with the MDH group -- helping process LAPD data and generally an incredible educational experience for everyone on the team. 
- Murray C. - really mindful about trying to use and expand on the diversity of the instructor/helper pool for workshops and also raising issues of panels/committees not being diverse when we're setting them up. Also being mindful to not continually use the same person/people from under represented groups so that they don't get burdened. Plan to engage more with the local groups on campus.
- Angela L.
- I started a dialogue within the R-Ladies community about the role of BIPOC (Black/Indigenous People of Color) in our group and questioning how we could show allyship. The Chicago group has always seen a need to further push for inclusivity in these areas, and by sharing our perspectives and allowing others to safely share theirs I think will allow the community to surface and discuss a lot of hard topics, or things we hadn't been comfortable expressing before. I think it also allowed US-based organizers to realize that we have our own biases, for example - not seeing similar cases of injustice / exclusion around the world. Locally, I think standing up and saying something is extremely important to our Black members and the Black communities we do serve here. 
- One other thing to keep in mind is that for those in oppressed groups - self-preservation is a radical act! So reaching out to those I know personally (i.e. close friends or colleagues, NOT someone I remember is a member of an oppressed group and also happen to know) in communities that have been affected + checking in on their mental health, making sure they're taking care of themselves, not getting traumatized by the news, telling them it's ok that they're not being "productive" during this time. This too is extremely important!
- Sarah S.
- We often get comments in stickies that they are excited to see how many women instructors taught in the workshop and other comments about wishing there was more racial diversity among the instructor pool.  I'd like to work on that and have been working with some of the campus groups for underrepresnted students to see how we can more actively engage with those groups. Before the pandemic, we'd been planning to organize a workshop specifically for a grad student fellowship org that helps support underrepresented students.  It is kind of unclear if we will go forward with the workshop at the moment but I hope when the group is interested we might be able to hold that workshop.  I'd really like to see more diversity in our instructor pool.  Suggestions on how to work on that are appreciated!
- set a realisitc goal for how diverse you want your pool to be based on who's at your insitution so as to avoid overburdening a superminority
- Great suggestion.
- Start with learners, i think the feelowship org is a great place to go and then convert to instructors. 
- I really apppreciate the suggestions Sarah!
- Christina K.
- Very immediately, I'm donating to local organizations + having conversations with friends. Building a network of support to make it easier to take concrete steps or make commitments that right now feel beyond me. 
- For events: making sure events I'm affiliated w/ have a Code of Conduct and process for enforcing it, that presenters always use mics, etc. 
- Karen Word 
- There are a few things that I learned from my experience with a related bioinformatics training program in Davis. 1) Early efforts at reaching out to underrepresented communities pay off because people who have positive experiences stay with the program and recruit their friends. 2) It's often hard to actively recruit people without funding and additional support. They aren't interested if they don't have a project, they may need transportation and housing etc. 3) Running spanish language workshops in the US seems like a good idea but it turns out the demand just isn't there. OH and 4) avoiding "merit" based selection processes, that tend to favor the privileged (not the 'best' or those who will most benefit) is really important

=============================================================================

# Trainer meeting, May 7, 2020  UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200507T14 

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Christina Koch (and Sarah Stevens ;-)https://uw-madison-datascience.github.io/2020-04-22-ttt-uwmadison/
- Anne Fouilloux https://nwu-eresearch.github.io/2020-04-22-ttt-online-CEST/
- Maneesha Sane https://maneesha.github.io/2020-04-14-ttt-online-EDT/
- Alex Konovalov https://alex-konovalov.github.io/2020-04-30-ttt-online-BST/ 
- Mike Trizna https://smithsonianworkshops.github.io/2020-04-27-ttt-smithsonian/

****Others attending****
- Kari L. Jordan 
- Annika Rockenberger
- Sarah Stevens
- Toby Hodges
- Mike Trizna
- Kelly Barnes
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Sarah Brown
- Alexander Konovalov
- Lex Nederbragt 
- François Michonneau
- Aleks Nenadic
- Jason Williams
- Elizabeth Williams

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- A-la-carte training requests are presently on hold. Trainer availability is unusually low, and we are uncertain that we will be able to meet the demand for member training. Member training demand may also be reduced, so we are working to evaluate capacity and regional variation. Please see this GitHub issue for comment on a-la-carte training: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37
- Running a local Instructor training online? Consider opening additional seats to other members and Open trainees. This will help tremendously and may be key in allowing a-la-carte/scholarship events to proceed.
- Updates to Zoom documentation in Handbook https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/zoom_rooms.html
- Topic of the month: Discourse! A needed forum, or just Yet Another Tool?
- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TbFjfK1lw1KC9buEyBmrn83G6zOB0B5dD3iXO-uvg2o/edit?usp=sharing

### Notes

### Pre and post workshop discussion
- see links to respective workshops above
- general: all recent workshops affected by Corona situation
- Anne: Fouillux post-workshop: did a two-day recently. Worried about people being busy so was flexible in terms of time away. Folks did homework, maybe more so than other times.
- Maneesha Sane: post-workshop: also was flexible when people needed to step out. Challenge: to keep track of who missed what part and how to follow up.
- Alexander Konovalov: post-workshop, https://alex-konovalov.github.io/2020-04-30-ttt-online-BST/ nine trainees one from New Zealand (!); major feedback was wish for four half-days. Also, Etherpad issues; had to use an alternative (framapad) and copy-paste content back to Carpentries Etherpad
- Mike Trizna: internal training, moving dates around meant ended up with 6 trainees; nice to have such a small group
- Christina Koch&Sarah Stevens: local/regional; small enough everyone could talk, but not so small folks felt pressured to talk; did noon-noon and noon-noon instead of 9-5; liked the spread but still concentrated; observing the other instructor made one reflect on ones own teaching; did wrap-up question at end to achieve 'closing': "what is one thing that you take away and would share with others"; kept track of who talked, achieved a nice spread; Q: concerns from trainees about online training? Not at the training but at lots of questions checkout discussions (is closer to new instructors doing their first teaching); Q: other feedback beyond wrap-up? Sticky notes, not one-up/down
- We discussed more issues around new instructors and online-teaching worries. Part of instructor training is teaching to each other online, so they get some practice.
- Q: new concerns about checkouts? Mostly in how to get an extension
- Don't forget The Carpentries have done online training for years and the trainer community is a great resource for others switching to it.

### Announcements
- A-la-carte trainings, those outside of membership, are currently on hold due to challenges to meet demands for regular (membership) trainings. See github issue https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37
- If you are running online training and have seats available please consider opening them up to others waiting for traniing
- Q (mike): How would we go about opening a local instructor training to other members? A (Karen): Get in touch with any of us — I think Sher is most direct but even emailing team@carpentries.org will get us connected
- Zoom documentation is being updated. Q Zoom bombing? Unique ID assigned to meeting but anyone can join; advised to claim host and set up waiting room in advance; can also keep meeting link/ID hidden except for attendees - harder for recurring meetings; waiting room: only host can communicate to waitees, but not other way around (yet?); ask waitees to change name? Can set up message waitees see when entering waiting room, for example 'change name to something we should recognise from your signup'.

### Topic of the month: Discourse! 
- https://forum.carpentries.org/ 
- Karen Word suggests Discourse as a home for our trainers discussions
- Need a place for conversations, distill ideas and organise them
- How to arrive at decisions around issues, involving as many trainers as possible?
- Would enable asynchronous conversation inbetween online trainer meetings
- Current channels (Etherpad minutes, TopicBox) function poorly as memory
- Example: past discussion on when should people redo teaching demo (e.g., fail them)
- Reposted the question on Discourse and recieved answers really quickly
- There is a closed section for trainers only on Discourse (a 'wall' may enable mor honest conversations)
- Some of today's topics could become topics there
- Discussed alternatives such as GitHub issues
- https://forum.carpentries.org/c/trainers-group/6 (I think)
- Other thoughts?
- Still need a way to arrive at decisions and generate permanent record
- Need to be aware of communication with community
- Time will tell whether Discourse works - conversations could dry up in a couple of months and we should probably accept that
- if it does take off, I think we will *eventually* need guidance on what discussion is appropriate for Slack vs what is appropriate for Discourse. Or we need people dedicated to ensuring all the useful conversations end up copied to both places. Same (to some extent) for TopicBox...
- From the chat: It could be really helpful to have new threads begin on discourse from copy/pasting subsections of the etherpad notes after one of these meetings 
- important to control notifications, Discourse seems to have a lot of options
- there will be a Discourse about Discourse on the forum :-)

****Topics from this meeting for future discussion (on discourse? ;))****
- online issues: how to keep track of people when they disappear? do we do any follow-up?
- what do people do to wrap up training?
- zoom privacy + practices
- how to better use asychnronous / low-bandwidth options
- hypothesis?
- discourse?
- https://www.iddblog.org/videoconferencing-alternatives-how-low-bandwidth-teaching-will-save-us-all/



# Trainer Meeting May 7, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200507T22

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Angela Li,  https://angela-li.github.io/2020-04-23-ttt-online-CDT/   
- Evgenij Belikov, https://alex-konovalov.github.io/2020-04-30-ttt-online-BST/

****Others attending****
- Murray Cadzow
- Darya Vanichkina
- Kelly Barnes
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Ariel Deardorff
- Liz Stokes
- Tim Dennis
- Matthias Liffers
- Masami
- Samar Elsheikh

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- A-la-carte training requests are presently on hold. Trainer availability is unusually low, and we are uncertain that we will be able to meet the demand for member training. Member training demand may also be reduced, so we are working to evaluate capacity and regional variation. Please see this GitHub issue for comment on a-la-carte training: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37
- Running a local Instructor training online? Consider opening additional seats to other members and Open trainees. This will help tremendously and may be key in allowing a-la-carte/scholarship events to proceed.
- Updates to Zoom documentation in Handbook https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/zoom_rooms.html
- Topic of the month: Discourse! A needed forum, or just Yet Another Tool?
- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TbFjfK1lw1KC9buEyBmrn83G6zOB0B5dD3iXO-uvg2o/edit?usp=sharing

### Notes
- Training Discussions
- Angela
- Two weeks ago. Teaching with Erin
- Went well. Angela did first half of both days
- Managed to make all the time points
- Rushed breakout groups
- Low vision trainer
- Problem with memory exercise
- In future will read memory exercise out loud
- Will teach again in June
- Timing discussion (Karen)
- Karen cuts judiciously
- Co-trainer cut website section entirely
- Post-training modules offer opportunity to relax schedule
- Discussion more natural, then pulling out key points for emphasis
- Evgenij
- Also paired with an experienced instructor
- First online teaching situation
- Managed to dodge live-coding. Was presenting with a single screen.
- Timing was small issue
- Second half first day. First half second day
- Lots of breakout room use
- People enjoyed icebreakers
- Live coding went well (peer-learning/feedback in breakout rooms)
- Etherpad didn't run well
- Alternative, jumped to framapad. Langauge issues as french was default
- Introduced an explicit physical break to move about for 5 minutes.
- Well recieved
- There was thinking about how to run it over 4 days
- At the end of the day, people were quite tired. Plus homework. Plus online overhead.
- Getting feedback through video was very tough
- Lots of talking to the screen, initially
- Minute cards
- Focused mostly on one up one down, rather than anon feedback. People gave feedback in the etherpad
- Hackpad feedback (brian)
- People had huge cognitive load. The idea of markdown was hugely distracting. Do not recommend
- Darya: many students don't know about markdown, even advanced students. Had to swtich to Rmd during online due to screen real-estate issues. It works, but does add to the timing of the workshops and the extra stuff you need to teach learners. 
- Topic on discourse where Francois is looking for feedback on codimd.
- Karen: used in 2 week workshops with some success. Great tool for writing Jekyll blog posts
- Karen: Timing
- The opportunity of an overstuffed workshop is that its a great way to model how to handle it.
- Opportunity for meta-discussion
- Learners uncomoftable about "missing" material.
- Announcement notes
- No conversation
- Al-a-carte training
- Al-a-carte training requests (scholarship requests to run instructor training at no cost) are on hold.
- Unclear about member demand. Trainer availability down.
- Not a "no" -- importanly only a pause due to the current crisis
- Make sure to speak up during github
- If you are planning a local training, make sure to share seats at the event
- Darya:
- Australia focused events planned to spur community building. Open to australia members. Is this al-a-carte event?
- Karen: Any event establiushed through agreement with carpentries is allowed.
- Darya: Community building is very important. Get through aussie waiting lists.
- Al-a-carte is explicitly trainer instigated without funding and carpentries instigation
- Zoom updates
- Zoom documentation updated. Check the handbook
- Australia discussion
- Trying to fit people into teaching demo timings is tricky. How do we manage audience timezones/regions in teaching demos?
- Karen: topic came up before. We need to modify instructions for signing up for demos. OK to write specific reservation restrictions in our teaching demo.
- Matthias: meeting demand for community discussions in our TZ
- Discourse
- Making a bid for a forum
- Asking community to adopt a new tool
- New Challenge: online training as impetus for forum
- Multiple ways of soliciting feedback
- Hard to collect/distil key points from multiple channels of feedback
- Discussion needed around recommendations
- Present challenge: meeting notes and discussion around them
- Minutes are not "circulated" for approval/summary
- People don't engage after the fact
- Discussion prompt: when do we ask someone to repeat a demo?
- Talked about it 6 months ago, in a meeting. Did good job reporting out
- All minutes are on github
- Also instructor notes in instructor-training, handbook
- https://forum.carpentries.org/t/asking-learners-to-repeat-their-teaching-demo-when-and-how/68/5
- Github works well for specific topics, but doesn't fit as a forum
- Matthias: I think the fundamental issue with Issues is that they are based on a paradigm where everything is a problem that needs to be solved or disregarded. 
- Brian (sidebar) RSS feed (only for open topics): https://meta.discourse.org/t/enabling-rss-feed-on-discourse-setup/55647
- Github foreign to many trainers
- Discourse has many options and fiddly bits. Opportunity for persistent discussion around topics as a community
- Ariel: got all the notifications
- Looked at one summary thing, ignored the rest
- How does this compete with slack?
- Matthias: "What online tool to let participants communicate?"
- Comparing online chat/IRC, mailing lists, online forum
- Discourse/forum strength
- Information more structured due to threading
- Finding information much easier
- Info can be browsed for
- Slack forces to you search by keyword
- Mailing list also very hard to search through
- Community needs all these modes of communication
- Slack for super-engaged people.
- Mailing list for not-engaged people
- Darya: slack as extra source of stress
- Check very occasionally
- Noise very high (most volume is local problem/discussion)
- Forum allows for nuanced discussion/approach
- Murray: "slack to me is the "instant fix" to my problem, rather than anything that requires any amount of time/thinking"
- Objective is that we have instructors engage with this forum?
- Karen: Inital idea was to open to wide-instructor community
- Cold-feet. Lots more variation in instructor community via norm buy-in
- Kelly is now working on an instructor survey
- Will feed feedback into the discourse 
- Slack response: Currently have trial full version of slack. When it expires, it will be ephemeral, impossible to search.
- Murray: Big con. Yet another authoritative place for information.
- Might reduce searching places in the future. Opportunity to reduce search space
- Question posed: what is the designated policy output from discourse?

- +1 for one in one out on comms tools (seems liek topicbox may not be needed if another forum app is used)


# Trainer meeting (informal), April 16, 2020  UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200416T14 
 

****Attendees****  
- Kari L. Jordan
- Laura Acion
- Bianca Peterson
- Toby Hodges
- Angelique van Rensburg
- Sarah Brown
- Lex Nederbragt
- François Michonneau
- Maneesha Sane 
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Karen Word
- Sarah Stevens
- Pao Corrales
- Angela Li
- Aleks Nenadic
- Mark Laufersweiler

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topics (what do you want to talk about?)
- guidelines for dealing with disruptive participants when teaching online (Toby)
- has anyone experienced?
- rare events that we should prepare for. there's room for a discussion of nuances of how we use breakout rooms. create a few extra breakout rooms. make sure you've got a good team of helpers - they can help with breakout rooms and managing the call/workshop
- re: using breakout rooms. whether you can create extra rooms on the fly depends on how you set them up initially
- would this be a code of conduct issue as well? can fall a bit on the borderline - these tend to be the things people most worry about because they're grey areas.
- good idea to check local institution policies too and how they compare to Carpentries code of conduct
- Do you have ideas?
- the Zoom call host has the power to remove someone from a call. could do this and then contact them to discuss
- but people removed by host cannot reconnect to call
- BBS: (later) you can control that setting in your advanced settings in your zoom profile
- it might be easier to do this as workshop host rather than instructor. handle it on the side while instructor concentrates on teaching
- can invite them to a breakout room with you/a helper/co-instructor 
- or try to break for an exercise where other particpants are distributed to breakouts, leaving you the space to chat "one-on-one" with the person in question
- though, if anyone drops and returns they would hear that conversation true, but maybe then you use an extra breakout? the waiting room sounds like a good place for this?
- if the waiting room was configured for the meeting prior to the start of the meeting, 
- for carpentries rooms:
- possibly create 1 time meetings with specific host/co-host/alternate hosts
- add waiting rooms on those?

What can we recommend for people to prepare for this type of event?
- before the call
- enable waiting room for call
- make an extra breakout room or two
- make sure you have plenty of helpers
- during the call
- assign your co-instructor(s) and (perhaps) your helpers as Co-host on the Zoom call
- if you're the co-instructor, help the instructor by trying to handle these things so they can focus on teaching
- as a last resort, remove someone from the call
- (from Brian) How can we prepare instructors for this in instructor training
- (we moved on before answering this, to make sure we gave enough time to other points in the agenda)
- How are we adjusting our social norms in teaching in light of COVID-19? i.e not asking people to turn on their video, givi
- recognise that we do need to be a bit more lenient but it's still important that trainees attend as much of the training as possible (all of it, ideally)
- Karen is available - contact her to discuss cases where people need to miss sections of the training
- ask trainees to share their video but don't push people
- hard to keep track of when someone disengaged and when exactly they returned - difficult to know exactly how much people have missed.
- be cognicent of Zoom fatigue for participants
- there have been a lot of questions about whether we'll change the format of instructor training (away from two full days) - Instructor Training committee will be discussing options today
- Aleks debrief from first online workshop:
- so far so good
- covered spreadsheets; OpenRefine so far
- just started Python (end of day 1)
- no problems with first two lessons
- had a troubleshooting session for Zoom & Python setup beforehand. still had a few issues but all sorted by day 1 lunchtime
- had a couple of Zoom sessions with instructors & helpers beforehand - important to be aware that we are all more experienced with Zoom than most!
- host institute wanted us to use Blackboard but switched to Zoom at the last miniute. (read David Perez-Suarez's reflections on teaching with Blackboard here: https://blogs.ucl.ac.uk/research-software-development/our-first-ever-git-workshop-online/)
- tried to have a few more helpers, expected to go a little slower but actually think we covered about the same as we would've done in-person
- asked people to use non-verbal feedback buttons for sticky notes; had helpers monitoring the chat to answer questions; set one of the helpers/co-instructors as Zoom call host - generally made sure the instructor didn't need to concentrate on anything but the teaching
- ideally I should have two screens for teaching, and so should learners (especially if they don't have a big screen) but a lot of people don't have this setup available so tried to go slowly and repeat things
- if you do have two screens, the zoom use dual monitors separates the screen sharing from the participants and controls
- Sarah S: We recommended… Best: two screens/large screen, 2nd best: two devices, last resort: split up your screen with zoom and software on one screen
- Something I discovered also is switching back and forth between screen sharing and not screen sharing pops the panels in and out of zoom for me, which meant I had to reorg the screen each time I started screen sharing again 
- had 15 attendees as the cap
- Sarah S report:
- giving participants only one way to give feedback may add
- +1 Aleks, Sarah B,

- thanks for sharing

****Some ideas from Karen:****
- What might a great "bad example" video include? :) (Maybe a few ideas here: http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2020-bad-online-talk.html)
- What's important in turning the new (https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/04/taking-your-carpentries-workshop-online/) recommendations (https://carpentries.org/online-workshop-recommendations/) and updates)into a short training module for current instructors? What kinds of 'hands-on' activities should be included?
- What should be prioritized in updating recommendations?
- Tell us about your local efforts, big and small! (shining example here https://eldoce.tv/opinion/metadocencia-clase-virtual-cuarentena-coronavirus-la-felicidad-compartida-se-multiplica-la-pena-compartida-disminuye_97495 -- amazing work Laura, Paola, and Nico!)
- We have an English version of this here in the shape of a MOSS funding application that we will be submitting by the end of Friday 17th anywhere in the world and upon which feedback is very welcome: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XSxrEib3DQgZ7GOLHeAQRrJn0iu-mswlmdR3PEt3H5s/edit?usp=sharing
- Aleks N's experience from her first online DC teaching experience:
-- Standard video conferencing code of conduct 
- use headset 
- use video 
- mute yourself 
- rename yourself 
- have breaks often or longer (people may have caring responsibilities) 
- have more helpers to hand 
--expect not to be able to cover as much of the material as under normal circumstances 
- not sure what would happen if people missed some bits if they would be able to come back 
- we used zoom non-verbal feedback for stickies 
- the person who is teaching - should not be the host, helpers/co-host to monitor chat and feedback 
- 2 screen for teaching and learning if possible (e.g. tablet, mobile phone) 
- have trouble shooting sessions (with helpers/instructors and participants!) ahead and before the session - even more important than before! 
- a bit slower to start with Python despite all the prep 

# Trainer Meeting (informal) April 16, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200416T22

****Attendees**** 
- Masami
- Murray Cadzow
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Christina Koch
- Karen Word
- Liz Stokes
- Paula Andrea Martinez

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topics (what do you want to talk about?)
****Some ideas from Karen:****
- What might a great "bad example" video include? :) (Maybe a few ideas here: http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/2020-bad-online-talk.html)
- Recorded with OBS, shows instructor ignoring chat and ignoring backchannel
- What's important in turning the new (https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/04/taking-your-carpentries-workshop-online/) recommendations (https://carpentries.org/online-workshop-recommendations/) and updates)into a short training module for current instructors? What kinds of 'hands-on' activities should be included?
- What should be prioritized in updating recommendations?
- Tell us about your local efforts, big and small! (shining example here https://eldoce.tv/opinion/metadocencia-clase-virtual-cuarentena-coronavirus-la-felicidad-compartida-se-multiplica-la-pena-compartida-disminuye_97495 -- amazing work Laura, Paola, and Nico!)
- We have an English version of this here in the shape of a MOSS funding application that we will be submitting by the end of Friday 17th anywhere in the world and upon which feedback is very welcome: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XSxrEib3DQgZ7GOLHeAQRrJn0iu-mswlmdR3PEt3H5s/edit?usp=sharing
- BBS: From my chat https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/G7A6ED1SA/p1587006679047700, how do we train and update our training to handle disruptions during the workshop. The kind that we recommend a "Let's take a break" as a defusing measure. Zoom's breakout rooms are awkward and I didn't have any good ideas at the time or in a chat with Toby
- Prior workshop there was a clear disruption and kicked out a person who was really behaving inappropriately. Can control if people who are kicked out are able to re-join. 
- Second workshop, an IT person in the role of giving data management advice attended with an "axe to grind" -- saw trouble coming but couldn't just disinvite. Talking more and more. Sub-threshold but increasingly disruptive. Rake in the grass: directly contradicts tool recommendation. After the workshop, asked not to come back tomorrow. But how do we train people during an Instructor Training about where the line is and how to handle things on either side of the line?
- Darya's advice to have a helper in every breakout room is really important. Vital to keep things going.
- Maybe needed to have an extra breakout and invite this person there for a conversation
- Maybe just create one breakout and ask someone else to talk with him?
- For both of these - in instructor training (or extra modules), practice using these tools and backchannels
- Roleplay exercise (a-la 'challenger' role) where they practice being the host, identify whether issue has to do with content or delivery, calling things out in a friendly and respectful way. 
- Christina: Dirk Collbry has done this really well w/ his cyber ambassadors curriculum (which is about communication + leadership)
- Bonus module in the works! Eventually.1st on online training, 2nd on coc/accessibility inclusion
- Maybe test in discussion sessions?
- could try use onboarding similar to when new DC lessons come out
- One thing that might be quick/easy/essential is "act early". (what does early look like?)
- Also option of private conversations
- Ladder of escalation - see how it looks like when people are challenging you and how you can respond
- How does host role function, how is it specific to online training? 
- Can see affinity groups forming to help role-play, learn something of a script. More practice becomes easier.
- Role to triage - formally designated. How do you prepare helpers? 
- +1 to specifics, being very clear about expectations and what will happen. Maybe you lay the groundwork on what happens if we don't
- Suggest not using the word "challenge" - focus on disruption rather than power struggle. Impact on learning environment.
- Could we write a pro-forma, how to handle side conversations
- sample Zoom CoC intro. Destigmatize breakout chat etc.
- "acknowledging disruptions, introduce different modes eg follwing rabbitholes with helpers if a learner reallywants to pursue an avenue not aligned to the training agenda"
- practicing roleplays where the host can practice recognising a) deviations b) distractions c) things related to the code of conduct and also practice responding to them, eg inviting the person into a breakout with a helper who can triage the problem.
- acklnowleding the group responsibility of holding a shared space - learner responsibility
- Could add to IT where we discuss intro
- things to prepare helpers with regarding their roles
- Beneficial to both attendees and instructors in that it is a set of potential instructions on how to handle these situations, esp for instructors who haven't had/thought of how to handle them
- What worked?
- Using an old established workshop goes much better.
- Best was weell-established workshop with specific audience.
- Being able to debrief in #trainers *really* helped Brian's mental processing after the fact
- Slack channel "enriched" cited being able to go in and leave, dropping in and out... misconception that training is "delivered" and "received". Thread to highlight in Zoom CoC is acknowledging shared responsibility of learners and hosts in being present as well as respectful of what is trying to be achieved. 
- * enrichcop.slack.com

- Christina: workshop easier and harder. Imagined actual teaching would be harder. This was a Docker workshop using Carpentries incubator. Only 6 attendees, great for first foray.
- reassuring that I can still teach 
- Thought about delivering exercises with attention to screen management. Ended up, because wanted people to have chat open anyway, gave everyone a minute to set up screen with screen share and chat. 
- Engaging people was hard. Wish they had planned one more breakout session to get people chatting with helpers
- polls could improve this
- Very personalized material because had just rewritten the entire workshop. 

- Brian had a bad experience with a poll -- nothing entered unless "submit" but +1 in shared document works well. Paula suggests sticking with 1 question.

- +1 in chat worked fine as sticky replacement
- Nonverbal feedback  also worked well and can be cleared by host.   Maybe we should use these in Instructor Training workshops to demo!

- Murray: How people teach mindset. Difficult to work out what the literature says. Lots of negatives out there, minimal impacts etc. 
- Long term plan is to ball it in with motivation as opposed to featuring it so centrally. But many people cite this as being important
- New normal and work-from-home/ juggling-from-home mindset and identity are related -- this is a good time to reflect on the identity that we bring to a learning situation. Asking participants how mindset has adjusted to working from home, presented challenges that need to be overcome




# Trainer Meeting 1, April 2, 2020  UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200402T14 

****Training discussion (pre and post, name, affiliation, email, pronouns)):****
- Maneesha Sane and Vanessa Gonzalez https://maneesha.github.io/2020-04-14-ttt-online-EDT/
- Pre and post: Sarah Stevens 
- post: https://sarahlrstevens.info/2020-02-13-ttt-online-EST/
- pre: https://uw-madison-datascience.github.io/2020-04-22-ttt-uwmadison/
- post: Sher! and François, UC Santa Barbara, https://fmichonneau.github.io/2020-03-19-ttt-ucsb/

****Others attending (name, affiliation, email, pronouns)****
- Elizabeth Williams, The Carpentries, ewilliams@carpentries.org, any pronoun
- Sher! , The Carpentries, sheararon@carpentries.org, she/her
- Bianca Peterson, North-West University, South Africa, bianca.peterson777@gmail.com, she/her
- Annika Rockenberger (she/her), arockenberger@gmail.com, Norway / Nordic Carpentries community
- Angelique van Rensburg, Carpentries, angelique@carpentries.org, any is fine
- Sarah Brown, Brown University, smb@sarahmbrown.org, she/her
- Serah Rono, The Carpentries, Tallinn, serah@carpentries.org, she/her
- Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries, kariljordan@carpentries.org, she/her
- Toby Hodges, EMBL Heidelberg, tbyhdgs@gmail.com, he/him
- Lex Nederbragt, Univ. of Oslo, lex.nederbragt@ibv.uio.no, he/him
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Paola Corrales, Buenos Aires University, paobcorrales@gmail.com
- François Michonneau, francois@carpentries.org, he/him
- Anne Fouilloux, University of Oslo, Norway, anne.fouilloux@gmail.com
- Sarah Stevens, University of Wisconsin - Madison, sarah. stevens, she/her/hers
- Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org 

****Apologies****
- Laura Acion, University of Buenos Aires - CONICET, lacion@gmail.com, she/her (I set my personal calendar wrongly and have another overlapping meeting)

Notetaker: Serah Rono

Agenda:
### Introductions!
### Pre and post workshop discussion
Maneesha:
- teaching instructor training in two weeks
- signed up, and teaching w/ Vanessa - meeting later this afternoon to start planning
- there's one training happening today
- other than that, there haven't been many other instructor trainings in this time
- worries about people sitting in for training w/ current WFH conditions and distractions around that i.e. child care, and wondering what accommodations can be made
Vanessa
- unreliable connectivity is a concern, Vanessa's trying to fix hers in different ways as the days go by for now
Kari:
- has anyone had experience calling into an Instructor Training before?
Karen:
- good q, no experience so far
- would be limiting - no screenshare, etc
- using mobile data an option, but can get expensive pretty quickly
Sarah B:
- using one's screen for screencasting only might help reduce bandwidth
Lex: 
- use mobile to speak, other screen to share slides only
- alt, share slides w/ other people so they can operate slides on your behalf as you speak via mobile
- Supports Amy's suggestion below
- we've done 2 full days because in-person meetings provide room for people to concentrate discussions, travel, etc
Amy: 
- trying to reschedule a training / move it to online
- how about splitting up training so that instead of full-day sessions, work with mornings only, for example
- might help a lot in accommodating people caring for others / needing to attend to other things in the course of their day
Sher!
- this is a legitimate concern - several people have cancelled in recent weeks
Toby:
- splitting sessions might mean stretching them into week long trainings - not everyone would appreciate the stretch
- important to have provisions for people to walk away to attend to unexpected issues - maybe ask attendees for consent to record sessions
Sarah B:
- consider async modes of training in addition to / in place of recording so people can go through training in a self-paced manner 
Toby :
- I’d be up for trying the “old” two-hour-sessions-over-eight-weeks format for instructor training too 
Annika
- @ pre-recorded - I think this could work for the lecture-style parts; they could be prepared for the actual discussion/exercise sessions (flipped classroom style) 
Sarah S.:
- post-workshop report from Feb
- large group: `had ~ 4-5 no-shows
- didn't aggresively invite people to participate, people didn't interact as much.
Suggestions
Maneesha:
likes Sarah S.'s approach to call on people to participate as it gives people room to speak, and communicates that everyone will get a chance
Karen:
instantenous response is to default to breakouts, both in in-person and online settings, and report back to the group
has gotten a lot of +ve feedback about this approach
feels certain Sarah S did a great job w/ her training
Bianca (in Zoom chat):
We got feedback once (workshop) where someone said that he/she hated the fact that we called on people randomly, and if we call on him/her, he/she would literally get up and walk out. Feedback was anonymous, so from that point forward we rather asked if anyone had questions or wanted to answer questions we asked. 
pre-workshop prep
trying new strategies, will report back on how that's going  later
Sher / François:
was in-person, converted to online at the last minute
participants enjoyed breakout sessions - maximised on this, increased participation w/ the group
it was harder to estimate how long to assign sessions
got experienced trainers to speak about their experiences
forgot to cap this, went on for longer than usual
recommends 45min for such a session

Announcements
Laura, Paola, and a number of Carpentries friends in Argentina launched https://metadocencia.netlify.com (sorry for the Spanish), an effort strongly inspired by The Carpentries' and Greg Wilson's materials to teach local university instructors in any domain basic skills to put their classes online, a request from most of our institutions to face the Covid19 lockdown. It is a free, volunteer, and open effort that has reached about 40 instructors so far and will reach about 30 more by the end of this week. We would be very happy to see it replicate, particularly in Spanish speaking regions in need of fast learning skills to teach effectively online.
Carpentries Core Team is not going to be following up on non-responses to event or demo signups for a while. However, we are a little short on Trainers to teach events. If/when you have more knowledge about your availability in the coming months, we'd love to hear from you.
Toby suggests summarising this text and displaying it prominently on a page accessible to Trainers.
Maybe also consider scheduling one to be taught by 3-4 trainers instead of 2 to accomodate schedules? +1
Topic of the month: Online Workshops & COVID-19 Response Task Force Update
Slides with info: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17SFftTzeift1iUgshNg74t3-jMSAOpsWtI3l5EQH4ZE/edit?usp=sharing
Karen: we will have quality-control over the first set of recommendations we share, but need to create room for community to iteratively share other recommendations based on their experiences
Questions:
Suggestions:
Toby: do we know of any instructors who will be teaching these online workshop quite frequently over the coming months? I’d love to read a series of blogposts reflecting on their experience and how they’re iterating on their approach!
Karen: we plan on soliciting for this type of content, and Discourse (https://forum.carpentries.org ) is a great place to encourage community to share content they write / come by in the meantime
Sarah B: We could have a comunity discussion where we offer a chance to practice with host capabilities (breakout rooms, etc) like we did in a trainer meeting once?
Sarah S: maybe encourage folks trying new virtual options to join for pre/post-workshop sessions?
Lex: Darya’s (excellent!) blog posts: 
https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-1/ 
https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-2/ and 
https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-great-online-learning-student/ 
Twitter thread you can amplify: https://twitter.com/dvanichkina/status/1245626981477003264
Toby: themed discussion session every two weeks on this topic? I can commit to chairing at least 50% of those (maybe recording them too) i suppose the pre/post- workshop discussion fit to this already?
Sarah S: I really appreciate that we are trying to put together experiences and putting together a guidelines for doing this with a Carpentries workshop.
Karen: Maybe a time for trainers to host/participate in discussion sessions



Trainer Meeting 2, April 2, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200402T22

Training discussion (pre and post):
    Tim D - pre: https://ucla-data-archive.github.io/2020-04-16-ttt-online-PDT/
   Christina K - pre (similar to Tim)

Others attending   
 Ann Backhaus, Pawsey Supercomputing Centre, Western Australia, ann.backhaus@csiro.org
 Murray Cadzow, University of Otago, New Zealand, murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
Darya Vanichkina, University of Sydney, d.vanichkina@gmail.com @dvanichkina
Angela Li, University of Chicago, ali6@uchicago.edu
Christina Koch, UW Madison
Masami Yamaguchi, Griffith University, m.yamaguchi@griffith.edu.au
Paula Andrea Martinez, NIF, 
Brian Ballsun-Stanton, Macquarie
Sue McClatchy, The Jackson Laboratory, susan.mcclatchy@jax.org
Tim Dennis, UCLA, @jt14den
Ariel Deardorff, UC San Francisco, ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu
Zac Painter, Stanford, zwp@stanford.edu
Evgenij Belikov, EPCC, University of Edinburgh, e.belikov@epcc.ed.ac.uk
Eric Jankowski, Boise State University, ericjankowski@boisestate.edu
Karen Word

Agenda:
Introductions
Pre and post workshop discussion
Tim D (w/ Kate): teaching online next week
Karen: no major changes in the past few months
Sue (just finished!!), taught w/ Mike
Despite worry + uncertainty (including participant's state of mind) - it went really well!
People were appreciative, engaged, excited to be there. 
Worried about zoom-bombing (https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/style/zoombombing-zoom-trolling.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article) - lots of simple things you can do to prevent zoom bombing: 
Only host can screen share**
Could require a password (maybe in the future)
Karen will share the host code via email now that topicbox list is private. 
Be prepared. :)
Tips from Paula
Training felt very quiet - that's normal. In person, have more visual feedback, online, harder to tell and feels more "silent." 
Practice the breakout rooms in advance. 
Can do either manually or randomly. Depends a little on the training situation - if there's people you want to group (co-located, or from similar area), use manual option. 
Have people edit their names to make it easier to group people. 
Tip from Ann: think out loud as you're doing things (so there's not silence while you're doing actions), like "okay, now I'm going to put you in breakout rooms, this will take a few seconds" etc...
Announcements
Still in the middle of scheduling upcoming trainings
Paula idea: Split 4 sessions instead of 2 days.  Zac and Amy talking about at Stanford. Ariel mentions best retention ever with 4-half-days. People will pop out, kids will pop in during a full-day stay-at-home session.  How handle someone missing an instructor training session with current chaos? 
Would be helpful if we could do smaller blocks of time (4 half days instead of 2 full)
People have a lot more conflicts now, much more challenging to do full work blocks
From zac: the other thing about four half-days; the time zones can be more flexible for different groups, since you don’t need as many blocked hours in a row.
How to handle when people miss more than 1 hour? 
Individual catch up?
Mike, Sue, Karen, Brian, Darya volunteered
Have videos? 
BBS: Darya's amazing workshop and blog posts for tuesday (Australia times) 
https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-1/ 
https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-map-digital-2/ and 
https://daryavanichkina.com/posts/2020-great-online-learning-student/ 
Twitter thread you can amplify: https://twitter.com/dvanichkina/status/1245626981477003264
Topic of the month - online workshops!
Recommendations to start: as familiar as possible to both instructors/learners
live, synchronous, videoconferencing
don't introduce unnecessary tools
Implementation details
Assessment!! SUPER important in order to keep moving towards practices that work
Infrastructure: tech (like zoom) + docs
Huge documentation + training project - how to onboard instructors on new and continually being updated teaching practices. 
Plan for change
Going to require iteration
Poeople are going to just try things. :)
Trainer contributions
teaching a to-be-written bonus module including some of the above
leader/advisor roles
Prepping to teach (AS A TEAM) key. Can't be ignored going to online.
Instructor focus on teaching, not managing chats.
Screen real estate hard with coding place, zoom, shared notes document. Tell how to use.

Side tip:
BBS: Make sure to manually update your zoom clients. Most updates they don't automatically update. Yesterday I went from 2.7 to 3.5
Eric: Minimum requirements for Carpentries Online workshops
Paula if anyone is looking for a zoom alternative https://jitsi.org/ I saw it working well at a meeting this week.
