# Trainer Meeting August 5, 2021, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210805T22

Please sign in with your favorite emoji -- may paste from here https://getemoji.com

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
    Mark Laufersweiler | July 19-22 | https://maneesha.github.io/2021-07-19-ttt-online-CDT/ |  🍺 🍻


**Others attending**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton🛰️
- Murray Cadzow :glitch_crab:
- Karen Word 🤯
- Jeff Oliver 🌵
- Kelly Barnes 🔥
- Rainier Barrett 👀
- Jon Wheeler🍕
- sarah Brown 🎉
- Sara King 🥳
- Liz Stokes 🤘
- Mark Crowe

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Mark L.
- Training went really well. The first time I had an opportunity to work wtih Maneesha and it was great! Monday through Thursday four day workshop. Not so good things: Maneesha is in Eastern time, but the workshop was in Central time. For her it was in the middle of the day. So it was like she lost four days. But she liked the four day format. We had 3 no-shows. The learners were great! They were engaged and very talkative. We kept the groups the same for the feedback exercises and that worked well. We mixed up the general breakout rooms so people still had a chance to interact. We tried something different with concept maps. We talked about them and gave examples and we asked them to go home that evening and try to create one. Then they could share a picture in our collaborative document. We talked about them the next day. It was the most discussion I've ever had about concept maps. I dont know that this would work for the 2 day workshop, but it worked really well for the 4 day format. Timing: We got through most everything. We taught the old curriculum.
- Jeff: Building trust is really important. I'm curious about the logistics of the breakout rooms though. How did you do it?
- Mark L: You can create the rooms in zoom but not fill them. We made up a table and posted it and had the participants go into their correct room
- Mark C: We did something similar in using consistent rooms for feedabck and different rooms for exercises. We deliberately chose the feedback groups and tried to group people from the same institutions together to support local communities.
- Mark L: When you keep the same groups, it gives you a chance to see if people take the feedback from before and can give them praise when they do.
- Sara K: Is there a mechanism for having people not muted when they go into breakout rooms? Maybe that affected the issue where people lose their audio when going into the breakouts.
- Mark L: I like to have music on when we are starting a workshop.
- Mark L: We didn;t try closed captioning
- Kelly: We tried it and it worked pretty well, but seems to make things lag.
- Sarah B: Zoom captioning works for standard US English, but doesn't handle accents well.

## Announcements
- Welcome to our new Trainers! See the blogpost here: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/07/welcome-new-trainers/
- Q4 scheduling is upon us! Emails will go out next week.
- We are going to try improving the form to make it less time consuming to fill out for Q1 2022. For now, please bear with us.
- There may be some changes to the workflow we use to distribute and follow up on the form.
- This request includes Trainers in Aus/NZ, Trainers who are not available this quarter (please say so on the form), and Trainers who do not yet know their availability or cannot commit firmly (you can also email us to let us know more detail about this). Trainers with limited internet that interferes with online teaching may wish to join online events in a supporting or observational role, in which case they may use the form and indicate this in the comments, but otherwise need not submit it.
- Jeff: Is there an option for being a bcakup?
- Karen: If we have enough workshops scheduled, I would like to be able to reach out to people to be a third trainer or a backup
- Mark L: I think that would have really helped for us to have a backup.
- Kelly: question from this morning's meeting. European Trainers indicate that sharing pronouns is much less common, so they have been struggling with how to explain that this is important. It's a different audience here, but worth asking: is the pronouns conversation common in Australia? New Zealand?
- Liz: huge thing on social media, but across organization there is polite interest but not a huge thing. More bemused acceptance.
- Mark Crowe: We mentioned it in the training. offered them the opportunity to put pronouns in zoom, but didn't insist. Explain the reasoningm, support people who do, support people who don't want to.
- Sara King - common in some areas and not others. Academia in general a little more awareness. Yesterday was asked by a colleague whether someone putting pronouns on their CV was trying to "assert their masculinity". A friend with gender ambiguous name likes to use it on email now to clarify.
- Mark L: in oklahoma we will have badges with pronouns. We are trying to use more gender neutral pronouns (they/them). Accessibility is top at the libraries here. Helps that the university has a strong opinion and supports this work. Still a personal choice, do not ask that they list them but do ask that they honor them.
- Murray: NZ is very similar to AUS, have noticed it has been creeping in on email handles
- Kelly - maybe it doesn't need to be in the curriculum, just needs to be there to support Trainers? But then we do
- Jake -- its really important that we recognize that there are good reasons people want to share their pronouns. Prefer "invite" rather than "ask". No need to say more about it unless there's pushback
- Kelly -- came up because people were getting questions about it. So having something to say about it if asked is useful.
- Sara -- having something to say about it can help keep it from becoming a big thing at the beginning of the workshop
- Mark - wordsmithing matters. Mask language. "expect" rather than "require" makes a difference.
- Liz- looking at scheduling a CarpentryConnect event in association with another event in October. Putting together ideas about sessions. What works, what would be great, get in touch with

# Trainer meeting, August 5, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210805T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Mateusz (taught together with Anne Fouilloux) https://annefou.github.io/2021-07-26-ttt-online-CEST/ 🙌
- Angelique (with Juan Steyn and Caroline F. Ajilogba) -  https://angeliquevanrensburg.github.io/2021-06-28-ttt-online-SADiLaR/ 🙌
- Trisha Adamus/Ben Chiewphasa - https://tadamus.github.io/2021-08-18-ttt-online-CDT/ 🐶
- Pao/Yani - https://paocorrales.github.io/2021-08-14-ttt-online-spanish/ 🙃
- Maneesha Sane - taught with Mark L (https://maneesha.github.io/2021-07-19-ttt-online-CDT/) & back up for Zhian K / Reed(https://reedacartwright.github.io/2021-08-02-ttt-online-PDT/) 🙂❤️

**Others attending**
- Annika 👍
- Sarah Stevens :carpentries: 👩‍🏫
- Mike Trizna 🏕
- Luis J. Villanueva🤣
- Jannetta Steyn🤣
- Hao Ye (he/him)🙀
- Ben Chiewphasa🙃
- Kristin Lee🎩
- Yani 💜
- Angela Li 🙃
- Daniel Chen  💩

**Apologies**
- Aleks Nenadic

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Sarah Stevens (sorry if I missed things...please feel free to edit/add)

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Mateusz
- taught with Anne over 4 days
- couple of people where far away from trainers timezones
- reshuffled the last two days.  episode about introductions in the middle (people woke up a little bit after the talking heavy carpentries part), skipped the setting up the workshop page for time,
- taught from the old curriculum
- ask for pronouns but don't tell why it is important and that they should respect them.  Curious how people introduce pronouns in the workshop, because it is the introducion to the whole workshop.  In past shared mypronouns.org.  How to others do this?
- Kelly:  Follow-up question:  What is the situtation in Europe about pronouns?
- Mateusz: Not common to discuss in the Netherlands
- Annika:  the same here - see from uk and na researchers but not common here.  when using pronouns you are using it when you talk about someone in the 3rd person, so not common to need them.
- Mateusz: Depends on language background, some folks have trouble with pronouns because of the langauges - don't understand how to translate it. - needs to address in someway.  I didn't know about it before talking to a colleague.
- Yani: native spanish speakers, we talk about this during the training.  personal opinion - the pronouns are something new but think it is an important thing that we as a community address to help include people who don't fit into the gender binary.  In spanish, in translation:  try to be gender neutral. Unlike English, Spanish has a strongly grammatical gender (masculine and feminine with very few neutrals). That translation adjusts wording to avoid having to assign a gender. Where a gender mark cannot be avoided, it uses feminine-masculine or masculine-feminine splits. For consistency throughout the text and to show that there is no particular hierarchy, it alternates the use of feminine or masculine between chapters, with the use being consistent throughout each chapter. This is know as non sexist language. If we want to use inclusive language we need to use the letter e which is very controversial.
- Angelique: In conversations my zoom already includes it and people ask why it is included.  I mentioned it was to be inclusive but it still wasn't well understood.  Need to work on this.  In Afrikaans it isn't common - thought of as a grammar term.  Might look into for other African language speakers in a workshop.
- Kelly:  What would help you to have these conversations? (room below for non-verbal additions)

- Other thing discussed with Anne, would like to have more clarity on when people miss part of the workshop, when do they get certified, when do they not?  Had person who couldn't join for 1 hr each day, said they could not join.  Then had one person who missed the whole first day and we allowed them to go through it with us.  Clarification on the process pls.
- Kelly: Tricky, a whole day is a lot but a few hours maybe not.  Need to come up with a better system for this.  Need to talk more about how to handle that
- Think it would be good to have a proposed schedule for the lesson materials with 4 half days, and the other common options (with what works well) on the workshop page
 - MyPronouns.org Resources on Personal Pronouns
- Mateusz: when someone asks my about why I use pronouns I say "to normalise the use, so that when those who want to use them, can use them freely without making it awkward."
- Angelique - w/ Juan and Caroline
- 18 participants, spread across Africa - for a specific group (missed acroymn and full name)
- Group knew each other and had some connections already, Comfortable with one another
- 5 mornings
- Juan got ill, so other isntructors jumped in
- had enough time with the 5 day format, so they could sit in groups and make their own workshop websites, could pair people who were less familiar with github
- Teaching demos easier to practice beacuse they knew each other and were comfortable with the procedure, many have checked out already
- Taught old curriculum
- 5 day schedule? - set for 4 but then if it went over to a 5th day we would have more time, since this group was very familair with github and the other practices - look at the link you can see how the sections are broken up, moved the homework for teaching demo on afternoon of day 2 so they had a little more time to look for a lesson they would like to teach, compared to others with 2 days or 4 days.
- Trisha and Ben -
- Aug 18-19th 2 day format, new curriculum
- pre-workshop discussion because Ben and I are pretty new, this is my 2nd works and Ben's first.
- Is there anything we should know about planning for the workshop?
- Reach out if you want support from instructors who have been around more and you'd like them to help co-teach
- Kelly: things not in the curriculum you need to prepare. think about the minute cards - making them, how you are going to address them, how you are going to handle breakout rooms (same or different?), setup of the shared note taking document
- For those who have taught many workshops and then transitioned into instructor training?  Any surprises that caught you off guard?
- Sarah: IT is more about giving people space to discuss and share their own experiences rather than as much knowledge transfer as the technical workshops
- Other advice:
- Angelique: Saw in slack that someone asked for help in slack and everyone came and helped and answered questions.  Didn't think of this (very stressed) when I taught the first time.  So you can ask in slack when you need information or help.  You will get help if you ask.
- Kelly: Found using slides overwhelming in addition to the other materials when teaching IT
- Mateusz: Started without slides with IT, then realized there is a lot of concepts where you need graphics or summary, so based on feedback I got from teaching without slides I introduced slides and now I use them somtimes, esp on the first day when there is a lot of theory.  People seem to like it.  Anne has very different style - typing things in collaborative doc and I used slides so we had a mix of different ways and managed to show different teaching styles.  Some people will like one better than the other.
- Angela: Don’t be afraid to offer your feedback to your co-trainer - I was teaching with an experienced Trainer who was having a busy week, so there were ways I could have supported more, but I was too nervous to suggest that we do certain things to improve the workshop. You know enough and have fresh eyes! And you can see things that the learners see as well.
- Pao: used slides last year and going to use it again.  for us it is important because we don't have the curriculum in spanish so it is easier to have the slides in spanish.  Have high standards for accessiblity with the slides so that takes a lot of prep.  Good for us because more of the curriculum is on the speaker notes and slides.
- Angela: Slides are useful when you are teaching something for the first time and need to convey key points (i.e. 7 things to keep in mind about accessibility). They are also good for keeping your learners’ attention in a long workshop - I tend to intersperse exercises with slides, but don’t rely on them that much. I found them useful for the Preparing for a Workshop or tricky situations piece in the new curriculum
- Also, if you have a larger trainee group - slides might be better here (may need to do some “lecturing” at a few points in the lesson). If you have a smaller group, you may have more flexibility with a group discussion model.
- Mike: Timing is always super difficult, figuring out what to cover and what to skip over.  That could be a lesson in itself, if youa re open to the trainees about that - that they too will have to make decisions about what to cover and what to skip.  1st time taught it - had all in etherpad and then skipped stuff and that stressed some people out.
- Kelly: Also had the issue of people getting stressed when skipped stuff.  Make the error the pedagogy - talk about it.
- Pao/Yani
- Teaching next week, in spanish, have 25 people cohort, from various countries in latin america, have waiting list.  Lot of interest in IT in spanish.  Seperate the schedule into 4 days, still working on the topics for each day, incorperating the new curriciulum , optional 5th day - discussion and demo sessions (checkout).  Trying to use saturday morning because it is a good time for people in the region because they can still work and use the saturday to participate in the training. will see how it works.
- High checkout rates with this extra day
- Yani - first time teaching!  learning a lot from the other trainers.  will report back.  excited to get more people from other countries to develop the community in latin america.  important to teach this in spanish.  teaching with friends is also enjoyable
- Maneesha
- taught workshop with mark l earlier in july and at the last min filled in for a bit of a workshop this week
- workshop with mark - used the old curriciulm because didn't have time to orient to new curriculum - looking forward to trying it soon, taught over 4 half days, mark had taught 4 half days before.  my first time doing 4 half days.  worked well.  9-1pm but not in my timezone so it was in the middle of my day, so it threw my days off a bit.  liked what it did for the flow of the workshop itself.
- made it feel okay to give homework - almost everyone did homework.  harder to get people do to homework after the 8 hr session.  one of the things we did as homework was introduced concept maps and then had people do it as homework.  worked really well. don't know if this will fit the same in the new curriculum.
- breakout rooms - kept the same for teaching demos to give each other feedback, for more informal exercises we switched it up and people seemed to like that
- Helped Zhian with a workshop he was working on because there was a scheduleing issue, nice to have someone there to setup breakout rooms and put notes in the zoom chat and monitor questions. - serving as a co-teaching, did step in to teach a lesson last min - very hard to do last min esp with new curriculum - reminder on importance of being prepared
- Luis: Not specific to this workshop but question.  How are seeing the differences between 2 days to 4 half days?  Are we seeing one better than the other?
- Maneesha: having done the 4 day for the first time, when i've talked to other trainers and learners, there is a bit of personal preference - what you know about yourself and your schedule.  Have seen 4 half day lets us have breaks and breathers in between, but you are giving up almost a full week doing this.
- Mike: one addiitional benefit of the 4 day schedule tha tisn't talked about much, you get 2 extra free hours because lunch gets cut out.  Great to be able to have more teaching time.
- Angelique: more breaks to avoid congitive overload
- Mateusz: have stronger opinion, we don't teach anything for a full day anymore, too intense, people are too tired, past it was different because people didn't spend so much time online every day, will not go back to the full day teaching online.
- Kelly: gives people time to process the information better too

## Announcements
- Welcome to our new Trainers! See the blogpost here: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/07/welcome-new-trainers/
- Q4 scheduling is upon us! Emails will go out next week.
- We are going to try improving the form to make it less time consuming to fill out for Q1 2022. For now, please bear with us.
- There may be some changes to the workflow we use to distribute and follow up on the form.
- This request includes Trainers in Aus/NZ, Trainers who are not available this quarter (please say so on the form), and Trainers who do not yet know their availability or cannot commit firmly (you can also email us to let us know more detail about this). Trainers with limited internet that interferes with online teaching may wish to join online events in a supporting or observational role, in which case they may use the form and indicate this in the comments, but otherwise need not submit it.
