# Trainer meeting, October 7, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211007T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Sarah Stevens (post, well and pre..)


**Others attending**
- Mateusz Kuzak he/him (Netherlands eScience Center)
- Mark Laufersweiler / Uni Oklahoma / Libraries
- Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries
- Mike Trizna, Smithsonian
- Kari Jordan, The Carpentries
- Kate Hertweck, CZI
- Karen Word, The Carpentries
- Luis J. Villanueva, Smithsonian
- Hao Ye, he/him, University of Florida
- François Michonneau, he/him, The Carpentries
- Jannetta Steyn, she/her, Newcastle University
- Sher Hurt, she/her, the Carpentries
- Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries
- Kelly Barnes, The Carpentries

**Apologies:**
- Aleks (previous meeting overrun and then had to do the school run)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room
Timesaving Icebreaker ideas:
- in Etherpad
- in Zoom rooms
- Names only
- maybe a number cutoff to do a full icebreaker


Notetaker: Karen

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Sarah Stevens taught with Aleks. First 4 day training, used old curriculum because crunch time. Also pre-workshop, next week teaching new curriculum locally! Got lots of advice last time even though we didn't teach new curriculum.
- We told them it would be a test. Aleks used slides, Sarah did not. End of day 2 they gave lots of unprompted feedback! Pretty much 50/50 with low response rate... Some felt they helped pay attention, some liked more interaction (no slides) and ability to look away. They converged by day 4 with fewer slides. Sarah found slides hard to juggle 2-3 Etherpads and Slides and Curriculum and Zoom. Checkout section did seem to benefit from partial slides.
- Didn't have them raise hands, just unmuted to talk. Started to see a lot of the same people. Switched it up on day 2 to type hand in the chat, feedback suggested they liked it and more diverse responders.
- liked 4 day because lower cognitive load and a little easier. Did wreck my schedule. Can't tell if it was really time lost overall but did block out afternoons teaching day. 4 consecutive mornings in my own time zone
- Kari: Was there a lot of excitement about teaching Carpentries workshops?
- Not sure we hear a lot from people who aren't planning to check out. Hard to tell.
- Karen: any difference in how you are preparing for the new curriculum?
- Practice names, prep work steps will be similar for next workshop. 3 Trainers in upcoming workshop so less prep overall. Haven't yet felt any difference so far.
- Mark: Re Kari's point: we are putting together a cohort with some professional development that we hope will really check out. Might be time for a breakout meeting with the members on how they can support people through checkout.
- Kari: It's one we think about but also a scary discussion to have. If overwhelming response is that we just want this for professional development, then what does that mean for our mission?
- Karen: don't think explicit benefits in terms of professional development necessarily conflict with mission
- Kate: Do worry about professional development options. It is a very interesting idea but whether our Trainer community is ready for it is a question. Open applicants should check out, so this is really a member issue.

## Announcements
- Kelly will be taking some time away in early 2022!
- New images on the Welcome page: https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/01-welcome/index.html
- maybe some sort of zoomed-in inset on the sticky note? https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LgwYClJ4NeKuQpWXwm5tCYaDp4g9RnfE/view?usp=sharing
- We need some more teaching tip submissions for our newsletter! Did you say anything in recent demo feedback that you think all Instructors might need to hear? Is there anything you remind yourself to do when you prepare to teach? Share it in this form: https://forms.gle/kzbP54je15tMCu5TA
- Emails applauding your participation for the past year will be going out ~Oct 15. Please continue to provide feedback on how these can be most useful and enjoyable for you!

## Topic of the Month: Much to do before the end of 2021!
- Curriculum release
- Certification renewal process
- Sponsored Instructor Training program launch (finally!)
- Looking ahead to Leadership elections in 2022 https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md
- Other topics for meetings:
- co-teaching Instructor Training: ideals and expectations
- [Things Karen forgot to mention but adding for those who check the notes:
- Trainer Training applications will open in November. Will be seeking reviewers!
- Instructor Training communications overhaul will be implemented soon! You should see improvements in our email communications to trainees as well as changes across our websites wherever instructions for trainees occur.
- "Urgent" workshop recruitment messages (from https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/G7A6ED1SA/p1633389669016900)
- How do trainers who aren't always on slack feel about the notices and recruitment of instructors in normal and "urgent" modes? How important are centrally organised workshops and is there a perception that we're having trouble filling spots?
- Since switching to online workshops, we like to have 2-4 Instructors. We like to have them confirmed and put in contact with the Host. That allows everyone to be connected in advance of the workshop. There are times we do not have enough Instructors signed up at that point, so we send out 2-3 emails per week, once we get close to the deadline we need to take it up a notch, and that's when we bring it to the Slack channel. Big kudos to Instructors because this does seem to work. This is why we are doing this. It is important that we have them connected a month in adbance
- Luis: have found it odd that there were so many urgent, and that the dates were kind of far away. It may be a matter of clarifying the use of the language. Urgent has a very particular connotation, seems like this week or next week, maybe wording that better would help
- Mark: I think it's fine. Transparency in understanding the process. We aren't thinking of it as a big deal now, and maybe being 4 weeks out is pushing the limits, but think about pre-covid, getting travel organized before a workshop would be impossible on such a narrow time frame. This timing will be more valid when we move back towards in person.
- Karen: What language would work better?
- I think the explanation from Sher! was really helpful. Increasing transparency around the urgent need for instructor **signups** or **commitments** may be better?
- Luis: not sure, but urgent really sounds like an emergency. Maybe that is the case. Maybe this is something to address separately. It is a bit worrying because it sounds like we have a lot more need than what is available.
- Sher: We have gotten more requests for workshops especially since online. We do have a working group in the core team to address this need. As we look at the future of online vs in person workshops we need to think about this too. It does seem like a lot of need in the Slack channel. If you go to the signup sheet at any given time there are about 10 workshops out there. We run about 4 per day. Overall we are sustaining. But for online workshops we do like to have more instructors, but for urgent requests we have not met the bare minimum. Do understan your concern as it relates to language, but it is urgent. Organizations need to know a month out.
- Mike: One step towards transparency woud be to list on the spreadsheet when a workshop was posted. It's hard to see where in the natural flow of people signing up a workshop is. Haven't signed up fo a while but usually a mix of people trying to teach their first workshop. Normally would come in at a time when nobody has signed up and seems to be needed more. Urgent or last call might be a good way of getting folks who want to fill in but maye not take a slot that someone else wants. I know signup has been thin but th
- Please share the word about EC Elections!
- Topicbox: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T39136c8cef4a3627-M2633e1666cd05d620485d3dd/ec-elections-announced
- Blog post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/executive-council-elections/
- Sarah: Neat way to learn about the internal workings of the organization,
- Kate: like to think about how we make decisions, how we balance needs of the organizations, and strength of the community. Gave me experience I couldn't get in my own job, has shaded how I have chosen career growth since. You do get something out of it.



# Trainer Meeting October 7, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211007T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Trisha Adamus (she/her), Madison, WI, USA
- Christina Koch, UW Madison

**Others attending**
- Ariel Deardorff, San Francisco, USA
- Jon Wheeler, Albuquerque, NM, USA
- Pao Corrales, Buenos Aires, Argentina (but not for long!)
- Kelly Barnes, London, ON, Canada
- Daniel Chen, Roanoke, VA, USA
- Sarah Brown, Kingston, RI, USA
- Megan Guidry, Akl NZ
- Mark Crowe, Brisbane, Australia
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton,
- Murray Cadzow, Dunedin, NZ
- Jeff Oliver, Tucson, Arizona, USA
- Masami Yamaguchi, Queensland, Australia

**Time-saving ideas:**
- maybe start a few minutes early
- writing answer in sign-in
- maybe random sample if we have too many people
- 5 min in breakout rooms?
- maybe not every meeting, maybe we do the random things like 3-4 times per year but mostly more pointed topics
- Thinking of new icebreakers:
- ok to reuse them!
- Alternatives:
- unstructured talking vs silly prompts
- *relevant* prompts
- from trainer leadership perspective, we could start providing some of the questions we’ve been looking for input on to the whole group to the “icebreaker" role

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Trisha and Christina: Teaching next week. 4 day format. Sarah and Trisha are dividing the first day and each of them are taking a day after.
- Christina: I'm planning to prep and look through Karen's notes soon. Does anyone have any feedback on the new curriculum?
- Karen: The EIA has seen the most additional changes. It has a lot of content but not as many activities. I'd like to hear how it goes and whether you think there needs to be an activity.
- Do people prefer 4 or 2 day workshops online?
- Trisha: 4 day is easier and harder. Easier to spread out and prep. It is harder for scheduling.
- Christina: Content is better in 4 day but I was surprised that it felt like it was the only thing I did that week.
- Megan: I'm getting some push back on the 4 day format from the community. Some people say they would prefer 2 days because it is hard to get manager approval for more days. Have other people heard similar things?
- Mark: I've tried various formats for Carpentries workshops (not Instructor Training) and someone always says that. You can't please everyone, but we found that 4 consectutive mornings seems to work best.
- Karen: It would be interesting to dive into our assessment to see if we can evaluate any trends on this. We will probably be keeping both, but it will be good to think about how you schedule events for your local community or what you choose to sign up for.

## Announcements
- Kelly will be taking some time away in early 2022!
- New images on the Welcome page: https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/01-welcome/index.html
- lots of chatter in the chat - clean up the labels, add more stickies in different colors, maybe nametags for the figures?
- label the icebreaker, perhaps.
- We need some more teaching tip submissions for our newsletter! Did you say anything in recent demo feedback that you think all Instructors might need to hear? Is there anything you remind yourself to do when you prepare to teach? Share it in this form: https://forms.gle/kzbP54je15tMCu5TA
- Emails applauding your participation for the past year will be going out ~Oct 15. Please continue to provide feedback on how these can be most useful and enjoyable for you!
- Please share the word about EC Elections!
- Topicbox: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T39136c8cef4a3627-M2633e1666cd05d620485d3dd/ec-elections-announced
- Blog post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/executive-council-elections/
- Masami: learned a lot about how the organization works. One goal is to get lesson program governance unified. There are a few other things like Code of Conduct committee. Focus is governance to make our community work easier. The Trainers community is part of our discussion at the moment, to make *our* lives better. There are some standing committees, so all of us participate in some of them, it is nice to work with the wider community. Negative side is that hours are a little longer than anticipated. 6AM meeting once a month. But people are very nice.

## Topic of the month: much to do before the end of 2021!
- Curriculum release
- Certification renewal process
- Sponsored Instructor Training program launch (finally!)
- Looking ahead to Leadership elections in 2022 https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md
- Trainer Training applications will open in November. Will be seeking reviewers!
- Instructor Training communications overhaul will be implemented soon! You should see improvements in our email communications to trainees as well as changes across our websites wherever instructions for trainees occur.
- Other topics for meetings
- co-teaching Instructor Training: ideals and expectations
 - "Urgent" workshop recruitment messages (from https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/G7A6ED1SA/p1633389669016900)
- How do trainers who aren't always on slack feel about the notices and recruitment of instructors in normal and "urgent" modes? How important are centrally organised workshops and is there a perception that we're having trouble filling spots?
- Only thing I see is "urgent" requests for instructors. This seems to be a failure of communications if all I ever see is urgent requests.
- If someone drops out that seems urgent. Other situations maybe not. Maybe unique to centrally organized workshops.  Aren't any communications normally
- For centrally organized workshops, theres a mailing list that puts out regular requests for workshops and people can sign up on a spreadsheet. At 3 weeks out, that is the point that they need to organize the workshop to have enough time to work out logistics. This could be a holdover from in-person (ie. travel). At that point, if they haven't had enough people sign up, they go to slack with the urgent request. They do this because it often works. People may not sign up on the spreadsheet but they may be more likely to when it was urgent. There were some suggestions that we might be able to find a different word than urgent. I can see how seeing urgent messages might look like a systemic problem. It has been harder to get instructors, but we aren't in crisis.
- Mark: You've got two opportunities to sign up for workshops - 6 months or 2 weeks. It might be helpful to have another round of general sign ups in between these two. If something was coming out 2 or 3 weeks ahead, I couldn't do that on that short notice.
- Sarah: Are hosts requesting workshops with a shorter lead time? They seem to be 4 or 6 weeks out. They used to seem like they came out more in advance. Is that causing some of that lag?
- Karen: Good question. I don't know the answer but will pass that along.
- Ariel: I also read urgent as happening next week.
- Brian: I'd like to suggest reserving the word urgent to replace already signed up instructors dropping out due to emergencies. Maybe 1st call, 2nd call, last call instead. Last minute stuff should not be rewarded.
