# Trainer meeting, June 17 2021,  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210617T14


**Attending**
- Mateusz he/him
- Mike Trizna he/him
- Konrad Förstner he/him
- Pao Corrales she/her
- Angela Li she/her
- Aleksandra Nenadic (AN), she/her
- Toby Hodges (he/him)
- Maneesha Sane
- David Pérez-Suárez He/him
- Sarah Stevens she/her
- Kari L. Jordan she/her
- François Michonneay he/him

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

**Agenda:**
## Pre-survey:
Please *initial* the answer that best applies to you in each case.
If you would like to comment on ways your community doesn't quite fit with the questions below, please do so in the space below each question.
1. Do you have a local Carpentries community?
a) yes MT, MK(kind off) KF, SS, AN,DPS
b) no MS,KJ
c) not sure PC AL , TH


2. If you have a community OR have an idea about what your prospective community will look like: are your Instructors *primarily*:
a)  staff/obligated to teach AL
b) students/volunteers
c) Mix MT, MK, PC, AN, KF, SS, TH,DPS


3. If you have a community/idea, picture a successful technical workshop trainee who continues to advance their skills after a workshop. Would such a learner be invited to:
a) advance to becoming an Instructor in your community (potentially in addition to other community roles) MT PCMK(first helper then instructor), SS, KF, AN (insturctor or helper - so a) or b)) TH (a or b, like Aleks), DPS
b) advance into other local community support roles but *not* become an Instructor
c) continue to advance/participate in a learner role only
d) none of the above

## Discussion Questions:
Please assign a note-taker, reporter, and time-keeper for each group.
Timer: https://cuckoo.team/trainers
If you have an established community, please consider in each case not only what your community does now, but how your community has changed over time.
If you do not have a community, please share ideas, questions, or questions-about-ideas.

How can local communities support technical workshop trainees in continuing to develop skills after a workshop?
Room 1 (Toby, Kelly, François, David)
note-taker: David
reporter: Toby
time-keeper: Kelly
EMBL: Didn't cover all the training materials, provide optional follow up sessions. To cover all the missing bits and provide some discussions about the topic. Later episodes (python) benefits from study groups. 2/3 were coming back, then it was a drop off. 25 people in a workshop, 5 people on these sessions.
R and Python study groups. Time at the end to promote practice after the two days.
Point people to resources like banks of programming challenges to try working on, in case learners did not have their own projects to strat working on right away.
Advent of Code  https://adventofcode.com/ (add /2015 to /2020 at the end of the URL to access challenges from previous years)
Rosalind(bioinformatics), http://rosalind.info/problems/locations/
Codewars is fun too! (and include many languages) https://www.codewars.com oh cool!
U of Florida: workshops + periferal activities around the carpentries. Study groups, hacky hour type of meetups, informal R lunch groups. Good to get people connected with others. 2-3 people per session but grow more.
UCL: not much activity after. have tried study groups, to follow up from workshops. very well attended. we are trying to connect with code clubs.
Kelly: Haven't got an opporutnity yet. There's an RLadies group that may connect in the future.

Room 2 (Kari, Konrad, Aleks)
invite them to a local communty meeting/space
point them to other resources and lessons to get an impression of what mateirals are available out there in the community
invite them to become a helper at the next workshop, then invite them teach parts of a lesson (e.g. an episode) if they are confident after helping at a few workshops; then invite them to apply for an instructor training

Room 3 (Angela, Mike, Pao)
Mike
Smithsonian is member institution - big deciding factor. Obligation to train instructors after workshops. Investing money in instructors. Workshops that are run are limited to Smithsonian attendees. Big advantage here. Pitched being a Carpentries member in terms of building up capabilities
Monthly brown bag series: people present topics that are immediate next steps after Carpentries workshops
Communication channels: Slack and Teams groups
Pao
Part of Metadocenia - Spanish language community. In Argentina, Carpentries is unknown - need to explain Carpentries every time. People who partcipate in training are there bc Trainers encourage them to. Help walk folks through checkout.
Meeting after training to go through all 3 checkout steps. Discussion sessions in breakout rooms. One Trainer responsible for checkout
Time consuming but way to encourage community
Angela
At Chicago, did supplementary workshops
But found herself as the singular force behind the effort -- so important to find support from others
Whole process would have taken 3-4 years to get appropriate buy-in and budgets aligned.
University was also very siloed so hard to get cross-divisional collaboration without appropriate library support
Started website with index of instructors (https://uc-carpentries.github.io/), Slack group of trained instructors, regular meetings to help with checkout, but not enough momentum to pass down before I left institution

Room 4 (Maneesha, Sarah, Mateusz)
- Sarah: At Univeristy of Wisconsin Madison
 - We have weekly office hours for people to get ready, or have questions about how to apply the skills they've learned.  Other activities innately support trainees - Research Bazaar, building communities of proactice on other topics like machine learning.  A lot of activity trailed off during the pandemic for communities of practice.
- Mateusz: Study groups.  We do workshops that are open to everyone. Sometimes also works with other univerisities to help them run their workshops.  We started doing set up sessions before the workshop for learners to test their set up.  Made it required.  Considering having a persistent channel like discord/slack where people can ask questions about before to get ready or about what was covered in the workshop.  Needs to figure out what work it will take to sustain this. Participants are from all over Netherlands.
- Sarah: Not sure about setting up slack for specific workshops, since it would be another communications channel to have to manage.  Likes that Mateuesz's idea is persistent. We have Instructors channels on slack but not learner facing.
- Mateusz: Ends up a lot of emailing back and forth, so others can't see those messages. In slack everyone can see those messages.
- Sarah: Likes that slack can be topic/group based. You can direct a question to a person. Anyone can participate in the conversation.
- Sarah: forgot to mention this when we were talking but we also point folks to people to other resources that could be useful at the end of the workshop and if there is something we didn't get to in the workshop sometimes I offer a special session later to finish up the materials.

2. How can local communities recruit new people to become Helpers and Instructors? How can communities support them in continuation, advancement, and development of skills that have value to them in the context of these roles?

Room 1 (Angela, Kari, Sarah)
- Angela: Was building community, then pandemic, then left.  If I'd been there 1-2 more years would have had time to get more momentum on this.  For us we tried to partner with groups that were already doing training.  Reached out to folks organizing dept of psych coding group and pulled instructor candidates from that.  Also tried to reach across divisions of the uni, which can be hard due to siloed nature of unis.  Ideally would have been centered in the library as it supports all divisions of the uni but coming from a specific institute.  Recruiting from interested people from workshops.  People who have gotten a lot from learning are good candidates but takes time to do.
- Sarah: Working in interdisciplinary research institute. Carpentries community started way before I got involved in it. Had just started getting library staff as instructors. Instructor pool was getting more stable since more members were staff members - Sarah got involved at this point. Had learners give testimonials about usefulness of workshops. One instructor who consistently passes along the word about the Carpentries to her colleagues! Her interest in getting other folks involved. She's so good at it - maybe something to learn there.
Have an instructor development meeting every month. Sessions about teaching debugging and stereotype threat.

Room 2a
note-taker: Toby
reporter: Mike
time-keeper: Mateusz

- Mike: member organisation with limited number of IT slots every year. Helps to organise the process. Always a few "unofficial" helpers at our workshops, particularly engaged learners who we invite to take training. Send out a call for applications to the whole organisation and always get a few surprises - people who weren't on our radar.
- Mateusz: similar, identify learners who show a lot of initiative and would be good fit as helper. invite them to do that then to become instructor. now working with research software engineers and have started encouraging them to start doing training work alongside their engineering. in some ways easier but also have to convince them to do it. we have debriefs after every workshop. study group sessions, reading relevant books and trying to identify small things we can improve in our teaching. challenge is that this has to fit with their personal/professional development - making sure that they can talk about those skills in annual review etc and will help them progress at the centre. need to incentivise them.
Toby: not sure that EMBL they did it right. How to recruit people? from the workshops, PhD student whow were promising, invited to come help. Conitunuation of developing skill: nothing to add.
Mike: follow up on "not enough workshops" we had that problem too but started scheduling them every quarter and that helped. people could plan better
Mateusz: we mix it up a lot, and want to make sure that anyone who is teaching becomes a Carpentries Instructor.
(follow up question from Toby, that he didn't have time to ask: did you find it hard to encourage them to complete checkout, if they weren't actually going to teach Carpentries lessons?)

Room 2b (Kari, Konrad, Aleks)
identify enthusiastic learners and colleagues who attend workshops, and engage them
 connect to other local groups and champions doing similar training in their domains (e.g. local R/Python user group) and invite them to collaborate or do a joint event

Room X  (Maneesha, Kelly, Pao)

- Pao: We have people teaching techincal workshops but without much guidance. Now we can start focusing on that.  Last year we did IT in Spanish. We did another meeting after the training to help people do their checkout together. Trainers hosted demo sessions and discussion sessions in breakouts.  We helped them to it on GitHub.  Ended with 19/20 people doing checkout that day. (compare to ~50% general checkout rate)  Took several hours.
Maneesha: Have people been teaching?
Pao: Yes but not an official workshop.  We usually do short sessions, a few hours a week. Not sure if this fits requirements for official Carpentries workshop.
Maneesha: Yes, we want to hear about these short sessions. Will send you more info!
Kelly: Are you in same geographic area?
Pao: Usually in different provinces.  Online has helped a lot to connect regions in country and across Latin America.

Room 4 (Konrad, François, David)
Add people to mailing list (if allowed) and inform them about new workshops and ask them to be helpers
Asks for 30% more of the money for lunch. so with that system the leftovers were used to fund travel to a conference or something of that kind (e.g., carpentry con in Dublin). People were sticking.
Find new people via the local groups,
connect to local study/user groups
Giving dedicated feedback after teaching (e.g. a small episode) or run practice sessions

3. How can local communities support Instructors/trainees through the checkout process, specifically? How can the community facilitate and encourage their decision to teach for the first time?

Room 1 (Kari, Angela, Sarah):
- Some monthly meetings had subject of "hey, let's help you through checkout"
- Sarah: Kindly checking in with people to see where they are in the process and if they need help or are confused about anything. Offering them local only teaching demos and inviting them to join for one of our many pre-/post-workshop meetings for a discussion session, or a monthly instructor development meeting.

Room 2 (Kari, Konrad, Aleks)
attend multiple demo sessions to practice
Similar to "help wanted page for lesson contributions" have a page inviting recently minted instructors to come teach or observe workshops (e.g. act as supporting insturctors) and even attend pre-workshop team meetings (to learn about workshop organisations) from more experienced members or sub-communities

4. What kinds of resources can support local communities
- helping people support each other. Communities helping communities, Instructors helping Instructors. How do you support Instructors in recruiting others who might be interested?
- Share ideas from other study groups (e.g., mozilla study  - https://github.com/mozillascience/studyGroup#how-to-set-up-your-own-mozilla-study-group-website)groups -- you could see what other people were doing in other parts of the world, copy things

Other items from chat:
Having a room almost always available for training and people dealing with logistics of snacks/bookings is really helpful
2 full time staff coordinated community efforts at EMBL

Closing questions:
If you could share one piece of advice about building or supporting a local community, what would it be?
A: It takes time and effort! Be patient and get institutional support and buy in. Get advice from other Trainers who have done it. And make sure you're getting credit for it for your job (it should be written into your responsibilities or on a training grant - we love funded time!) +1

OR
If you could get a good answer to one question about building or supporting a local community, what would it be?


# Trainer Meeting June 17 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210617T22

**Attending**
- Ariel Deardorff she/her
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Luis J. Villanueva
- Murray Cadzow (he/him)
- Liz Stokes she/they
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Mark Crowe

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Pre-survey:
Please *initial* the answer that best applies to you in each case.
If you would like to comment on ways your community doesn't quite fit etc., please do so in the space below each question.
1. Do you have a local Carpentries community?
a) yes, BBS, AD ,LJV, MC, LS,ML
b) no
c) not sure

BBS: While covid was a problem, MQ, then all of Sydney, then all of Australia+NZ are distinct and real communities (we know each other's faces, can rely on each other for help, debrief with each other, and preferentially teach with each other)

AD: Yes but we don't really teach full workshops anymore, instead teach shorter workshops modules more frequently
LS "local" for me means Sydney, Australia, and Aust + NZ. So there are a few layers - this is a good point. I was thinking of local being at my institution but I very much feel like there is a California "local" Carpentries community as well that is very different
MC: go with the "local" layer thinking too - Dunedin, NZ, "ANZAC" (You're one of us, mate :).. or we're one of you?) our west island ;)
MY: I am not sure what 'local' definition can be and I cannot participate Australian community as much due to my work.

2. If you have a community OR have an idea about what your prospective community will look like: are your Instructors *primarily*:
a)  staff/obligated to teach, BBS, AD, LS
b) students/volunteers MC, ML

BBS: It is very important to us in Australia that work is recognised as work. (Making sure this work is baked into contracts also helps with continuity and expertise. Our loss-rate of volunteer students at MQ is not very sustainable) -- Our helpers are volunteer, though. +1 Some organisations are good at doing this; others have strict rules about who from that institutions is 'allowed' to undertake volunteer activities. (+1 Liz, Yeah, this works at MQ, but does rather... frustrate ResBaz and inter-collegate workshops. We could very much hope for more.)

AD: We tried to recruit students/staff as (paid) instructors but they all left soon after completing their instructor training :( (BBS comment: Oh, yeah, this isn't a good "job" in itself, but isn't a bad duty as part of a larger, meaningful, job. 3 of our new hires have it as part of their job descriptions -- though there's a touch of friction there as well. Still, it helps to have that be an expectation-of-job to defend the time spent to the powers that be)

MC: We have one or two staff who have it in their job description. But most instructors are staff who volunteer (outside of their job descriptions)

3. If you have a community/idea, picture a successful technical workshop trainee who continues to advance their skills after a workshop. Would such a learner be invited to:
a) advance to becoming an Instructor in your community (potentially in addition to other community roles), BBS, LJV, ML
b) advance into other local community support roles but *not* become an Instructor LS
c) continue to advance/participate in a learner role only: AD
d) none of the above

BBS: That is how we get helpers and people who we nominate for instructor training at MQ.
ML: We also invite faculty and adjuncts to take instructor training as a professional development and not necessarily to be certified or particpate in the instructor pool.
MC: I think this becomes very person specific and what they feel comfortable doing

## Discussion Questions:
Please assign a note-taker, reporter, and time-keeper (10 minutes total. Anticipate 7 for responses + 3 summation/notes) for each group.
If you have an established community, please consider in each case not only what your community does now, but how your community has changed over time.
If you do not have a community, please share ideas, questions, or questions-about-ideas.
In each case, if you have time, also give some thought to who and what makes these ideas possible/realistic.

How can local communities support technical workshop trainees in continuing to develop skills after a workshop? (10 min)

Room 2 - Ariel, Luis, Kelly

Ariel - 3 Instructors at the library. We are mostly teaching individual modules now instead of who workshops.
Luis - Collections staff at the Smithsonian, manage data and data science team. Mostly permanent staff

Ariel: Proramming and pizza - a drop in. Has gone through many iteractions. Tidy tuesdays/book club. People always expect a class. Haven't been doing that virtually during the pandemic.
Luis: Brown bag. One of the problems is that we are distributed between many buildings. We have tried moving from building to building. We use slack too to keep people engaged. This hasn't been as active as we want, but hopefully we will start having more conversation about data problems. Two channels: one for instructors and one for everyone.
Ariel: We have gotten requests to start a slack channel for answering r questions, but we are afraid we will get too many requests that we won't be able to keep up with
Kelly: Is it different at a University vs. a place like the smithsonian? Is there less turnover?
Luis: There is a core group, but there are also people that take trainings and then drop off.

Room 3 - Masami, Mark C, Brian
Lack of common subsequent material makes it very hard to maintain momentum. Very difficult to mentor a community in a high-turnover environment. Micro-credentialing has some promise, but doesn't have enough demonstrated routes with the carpentries curriculum to be a good recommendation.
Mark
Hacky hours in QLD, weekly get-togethers to encourage dropins
QCIF embeds eResearch analysts in unis
Weak point: lack of followup training. Most training targeted for first-timers (+100 BBS)
Masami
Also in QLD, same as Mark
Uni runs hacky-hour (multi-campus bouncing location week by week)
Attendence low
No followup mechanism/participant progress tracking.
Masami is removed from that subsequent community building.
QCIF runs workshops for QLD Unis / somewhat isolates local trainers
Weak point: also lack of followup
Brian
There are some user groups in MQ (R-users and some python) which are the main drivers in a post-carpentries momentum preservation... thing...
Problem - Keep people momentum, ResBaz does not work as hoped, delivering advanced workshop is a challenge
Micro-credential idea: Masami to follow up with Amanda Miotto
 A small group of ancient history students have started growing skills after a SQL workshop last year -- but this is many hours of one on one meetings with very slow turnover where they're starting to support each other.
Room 1 - Murray, Mark L, Liz
- Liz like yoga teacher training, opportunities for staying involved tend to be limited to instructor training - but as a new trainee the organising overhead is massive.
- Mark - had a plan to put workshop organising into own job so that the new trainees could concentrate on getting to instruct their first workshop.
- Murray - use workshops as an outreach, but also use a regular study group - weekly - to give people a place to come and ask qustions on

2. How can local communities recruit new people to become Helpers and Instructors? How can communities support them in continuation, advancement, and development of skills that have value to them in the context of these roles?

Room 2 Murry, Masami, Mark Q2 -Murray  been in my job desc to deliver carpentries traineing  at my institutions, and also doing trainer work for NZ.  Largely get poeple to do anything they felt comfortable with. Any kind of help just let me know how much or how little. Accommodate people's different capacity and confidence. Wanting to get them comfy with standing up and getting involved. The time aspect is a challenge with work/life etc.
Masami - QCIF organises online and get list of attendees/instructors/helpers. Give advantage to be sent to workshop if providing helpers
Mark L - advertise to keep coming back and how to get involved. try to recruit post-docs to provide them with a teaching opportunity. target research campus staff. covid has limited face-to-face recruiting. Outside of staff is hard to recruit. some depts outsourcing the beginner content and bring them back for the intermediate so less of a joining community type feel
Murry - People are more embeeded in a group, Instructors / helpers are more recruited by peer communications; succession planning; Grass roots; How PhD can see the benefit of getting involved in the community
Shiftin mindset from just attending a workshop as a learner to joining the community as a working memger is a challenge

Room 1 - BBS, Ariel, Karen
Ariel
Doesn't have an institutional membership. No formal proccesses to support interest.
Current question to their team about how to support 2 new students into instructor training. Informal instructor training possible, but no formal community-pipeline for joining.
Helpers: another area of difference. No full workshops, don't really recruit helpers because only shorter modules taught. Scale sufficient for staff-only support
Gave people gift cards / honorariums without much success of retention
BBS
Helpers not a problem, from post-workshop invitations, email-list
Had to make instructors a job-duty in role to form corps
In times of OK money, many instructors across campus are allowed by bosses to participate. But in times of tight money, all that collegality evaporates
PhD students are OK for the first two years, then vanish into the maw of dissertation. They are fine as co-instructors, but don't provide a good central core of community.
Karen
At Davis, they had platinum membership. Did training without much regard to if students would follow-on
Training-central lab, to attract people to maintain a consistent training program.
Seeded community with those trained-people to recruit other instructors/helpers
Major question: where does the membership come from? Who will support the training of the instructors?
Ariel: There are challenges about value props about year 4-5 of membership +1 BBS

Room 3 - Mark C, Luis, Kelly

Mark - I have the funds to recruit staff. My recruits come from mainly PhD students. Most of them haven't come through Carpentries training, They are already using the tools in their own work. Because we pay them, we can call on them more and get lower turnover. We provide computing services to Queensland universities. We have a training budget, so we can hire Instructors. We have some casual helpers and some of them become instructors.
Luis: Our main source of helpers/instructors are people who have taken the workshop themselves. We tell them if they are interested, we will help them go through the instructor process. It is purely volunteer which is difficult. Sometimes we don't know who is going to teach up until the last day because it is difficult to get volunteers. I'm not sure we could pay instructors becuase of the struture of the government institutions. It's mostly staff and post-docs.
Mark: We've had concerns because if someone has done a Carpentries workshop but not much else, what if they get slightly harder questions and they are a novice instructor.
Luis: We have not had too much back and forth after the people leave. Our workshops fill really fast (15 to 20 mins), but it has been hard to keep them after.

3. How can local communities support Instructors/trainees through the checkout process, specifically? How can the community facilitate and encourage their decision to teach for the first time?

Murray - not so good at the local cohorts but getting better at the national coordiation. For nat coords it woudl be great if they could be part of the process for knowing who to fillow up with regarding checkout follow through. Often pitch a teach a single episode on the first time - but also want to limit the amount of instructor musical chairs infront of the attendees
Local checkout feels much safer. People get really fearful about being asked to start anywhere in a lesson.

MarkL - biggest challenge in teaching demos - giving them lots of opps for practising teaching demos. This takes the stress factor out of it.  They don't mind contributing when they can just do issues. Imposter syndrome is a problem. Process feels ill defined. Practice helps. Privilege ofhaving a Trainer there who really understands the checkout process. They tend to practice episodes over and over. We practice picking the episode randomly to give them a better feel of what they will do. Safe place to fail. May not go well, maybe 3-4 practice sessions sometimes but it gets them through.

Ariel: virtual teaching has made it so much easier to teach for just an hour etc. Lots more co-teaching, 6 Instructors for a workshop, can just do a little bit and be a helper for the rest of the time. Great way to onboard people in a way that is not overwhemling.

Luis: We encourage Instructors to not necessarily teach right away, but at least be a helper a couple of times so they can see the whole process from that perspective. They can see how it flows and the questions and back and forth. We haven't asked if that helps but it probably does relieve the pressure.

Brian: We keep checking in and (frankly) guilt-tripping ours with how much their training cost. For the informal ones, we keep reaching out through various email lists and encourage them to start as helpers to "slippery-slope" them into being instructors later. And we keep track of checkout status. Local checkout would be great, but unable to support at this time.

Closing questions:
If you could share one piece of advice about building or supporting a local community, what would it be?

BBS: Keep showing up. +1
AD: See how you can incorporate this into job descriptions+1
ML: keep at it. it seems each group has its own level of engagement, have a grab bag of methods to engage. And have a grab bag of one minute pitch topics.
Luis: try many things. Some things work, some don't.
How do you sell it as you're joining a community rather than "here's some training"? +1
- We have tried keeping some channels open and being explicit that this is not a one time thing, we are here to help each other
How do you motivate engagement?

OR (inclusive)
If you could get a good answer to one question about building or supporting a local community, what would it be?

AD: Who has successfully done follow up hacky hours for learners and how did they work? +100!!!
As an aside, the mozilla study group framework isn't bad for a hacky hour framework https://mozillascience.github.io/studyGroupHandbook/ -- but that's not the "community" core part... thing...
BBS: What's the best proven "What's next?" pitch for the end of the workshop?
