# Trainer meeting, 2 December  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211202T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Trisha Adamus, she/her, UW-Madison


**Others attending**

 - Kelly Barnes, she/her, The Carpentries
- Angelique Trusler, any, The Carpentries
- As and instructor - do I have to attend the whole workshop?
- Mike Trizna, he/him, Smithsonian Institution
- How do I get connected to teach centrally organized workshops?
- Nathaniel Porter, he/him, Virginia Tech
- How do I set up the websites?
- Grace Fishbein, she/her, ACENET, NL, Canada
- Questions about checkout process - what happens if it takes too long?
- Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
- How much can you modify when you teach? Difference between self organized and centrally organized.
 - Danielle Sieh, sher/her, The Carpentries
- How soon can you hold a workshop when you request it?
- Luis J. Villanueva, He/Him, Smithsonian
- Similar questions a others
- Karen Word, she/her, The Carpentries
- Boundaries of branding - what can you change, what about mix and match workshops.
- Sher!, she/her,The Carpentries
- What about teaching additional lessons like matlab?
- Hao Ye, he/him, University of Florida
- Do you have to attend the whole thing? How does that affect certificate?
- Oh, and what is the certificate process these days? Are we still sending a batch list of emails to Francois?
- Maneesha: To get learner certificates you can generate your own here: https://github.com/carpentries/learner-certificates or send a csv to workshops@carpentries.org.  Note these are certificates of attendance, not completion as we do not track what they have completed or skills mastered.  👍


**Apologies**
- Aleksandra Nenadic (a clash with another event, will try to make it if possible)
- Margareth Gfrerer

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Trisha did a session 15-16 November w Carrie Brown. When the curriculum got revised there wasn't a lot of info about the contribution piece. Lots of questions about that. Teaching demo yesterday had question -- they didn't feel they knew what to do about the contribution piece.
## Announcements
- We will not be scheduling Bonus Modules for Q1 2022 at this time. If you expressed interest in teaching one, consider planning to dedicate that time to help out with updates instead.
- Mike: do we need to train people to teach in person when they have to go back?
- Sarah: had this question come up in a recent teaching demo. Recommended having experienced instructors in the room. Posted to Twitter: https://twitter.com/microStevens/status/1461006439271616513
- WAT will be hosting a community discussion next week December 7 (2 slots) to talk about upcoming developments regarding online workshops. If you are an Instructor, please come if you are going to be teaching online workshops in 2022
- Piloting updated/new material might also be useful for Bonus Modules - Angela and Grace may look into this and put something on the calendar depending on bandwidth. We covered advanced Zoom material and Grace had some very useful tips.
- Instructor Training Core Team will be on holiday December 20 - January 2. In case of emergency, please use/cc team@carpentries.org
- Self-nomination form for Trainers Leadership is open now through January 18. Don't be shy! This is a manageable role that supports key decisions and community mechanics and offers guidance for Core Team. All voices are important, including new Trainers. https://forms.gle/LCrZ4kJQQtmPYUNp7
- Upcoming (7 Dec and  8 Dec) Community Discussion to discuss new developments for online workshops.
- https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/11/online-workshops-future/
## Workshop Administration FAQ with Danielle Sieh
- Question: centrally vs self organized workshop & modification. The biggest difference is that with self-organized workshops the Instructors or instituion with instructors puts the workshop on themselves. Centrally organized they don't have Instructors or want us to find Instructors for them. For CO workshops the requirement is that the core lessons are taught at the workshop. For example for Software Carpentry Unix, Git, R/Python. We have heard that with online workshops it is hard to get to all the material; it is ok to cover what is most important within that, or what the host most wants covered and not get to everything. We also have extended lessons for some curricula that you are able to add on to those lessons. Core workshops: https://carpentries.org/workshops/#workshop-core
- Sher: for Mix and Match workshops generally whenever you deviate from Core. Mixing LC and SWC, Changing dataset, bringing in additional information maybe from the incubator, all of this counts as mix and match. May firm things up next year, but for now whenever you deviate.
- Mike: what do you call those things when you are branding your workshop if you have a mix and match? Carpentry workshops?
- Danielle: when I input them, we have them as mix-and-match workshops...
- Sher: when it's a deviation, you should say it's a Carpentries-inspired workshop, material taken from The Carpentries etc. This is part of what we will be defining more next
- Mix and match workshops are *only* allowed for self-organized workshops
- Do I have to be present at the workshop if it is spread over a couple of days?
- Danielle: we would like people to be there. The information is spread out, and it is hard to gauge where the learners are if they haven't been there. However, this is hard. There may be other ways to catch people up, holding outside office hours, having a shared notes document, pointing to the curriculum.
- Instructors specifically - do they have to be there the whole time?
- Danielle: it is helpful for them to be there the whole time, but it is not essential. We understand if it is not possible.
- Sher: Particularly for CO workshops, we want to make sure people never teach alone. Ideally we don't want an Instructor to be left alone. If we have 4 we hope if 1 is gone you still have 2-3 and if not you still have helpers. But we really don't want an instructor left alone, they may need help answering questions that relate to other sections etc. If you aren't going to be there make sure there are other people to support.
- Danielle: when assigning instructors, I make sure that there are 2 instructors for each day even if all can't be there the whole time.
- How do you get connected to Centrally Organized workshops?
- Danielle; easiest way is to join Topicbox. Instructors list. Signup sheet always goes out through that topicbox group. Anyone in the group will get the emails.
- Karen: people are not currently added to this list unless they ask to be added. Maybe this will change?
- Maneesha: many changes to lists coming in the new year.
- Danielle: we normally like to have the workshop website around 3 weeks before a workshop so surveys can go out. Talisha will send out survey results 2 weeks before the workshop.
- Karen: maybe we need a workshop websites bonus module? (Widespread agreement)
- Hosts often want to know when they will have Instructors confirmed. We like to have 4 weeks between introducing Instructor to host and workshop. Sometimes it isn't possible to get instructors 4 weeks ahead of time, at which point we put it out as a high priority workshop. That's when the extra messages go out for those.
- What about teaching additional lessons, like Matlab?
- Sher: for Self Organized workshops you have an open slate to put together whatever you want. For CO workshops we say there is no guarantee we can find instructors, we need 2-3 months. MOst are familiar with core requirements but we may not have a lot of folks able to teach Matlab or SQL, so we try but no guarantee. Make sure they give us extra time to recruit.

# Trainer Meeting DATE, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211202T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Jon Wheeler, he/him, University of New Mexico
   When have you mixed and matched until you are no longer a Carpentries workshop? (follow-on: SWC has Automation and Make, or SQL. Those kinds of additional lessons. Is it mixing and matching if you throw those into a longer event?)

**Others attending**
- Kari L. Jordan
  - How can I remind people how to recruit for self organized workshops
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
  - What resources exist for post-carpentry support/community building/the "what's next" question?
  - If we have centrally organised "credits" (this question is very old, but I'm out of the loop) and we never use them, what else can we use them for?
  - A topic that always comes up: pay for lunch/charging for a workshop?
- Jannetta Steyn, she/her, Newcastle University, UK
  - Membership is confusing!+1
- Zac Painter
  - What am I supposed to do with this certification after I get it? What does it get me -- what are the benefits?
- Mark Laufersweiler, he/him, Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
  - As we have played with scheduling and are moving away from 2-day workshops, spread out over 4 weeks etc we get a lot of people who want to take only one section. How do we report our metrics? we teach all three, but learners don't necessaily come from all 3. How do we count attendance, how does it work towards a workshop. They can register separately for each section
- Kelly Barnes, She/her, The Carpentries
  - Mix and Match workshops: what makes things a Carpentries workshops, what leeway do they have?
- Kate Hertweck, perceived pronouns, CZI
  - How much can I customize/modify the materials? (can I use this content I've taught elsewhere?) If you cut things can't you change them anyway
- Jeff Oliver, he/him, University of Arizona
  - Can I customize the workshop to my audience (I promise I am not just copying Kate's answer) - I mean, we got TONS of questions on this when we taught together!
- Danielle Sieh, She/her/hers, The Carpentries
  - How soon are Instructors confirmed for Hosts?
- Sher!, She/her/hers, The Carpentries
  - Teaching extended curriculum for Carpentries material, especially CO
- Sarah Brown, she/her, University of Rhode Island
  - What are they expected to DO as an Instructor? is there a requirement to teach, how do they sign up?
- Angela Li, she/her, Princeton University
  - How do we adapt workshops to fit our department or area
- Mark Crowe


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and Post workshop discussions
- Jon taught with Jordan in November. Went very smoothly. 15 people. Very engaged. Didn't try anything particularly revolutionary. We still ended up sort of mixing and matching new and old curriculum by accident, Jordan kept things running smoothly anyway. Lots of positive feedback. Balance between things like slides and activities was challenging. Some text-heavy materials. We decided not to use slides, but how do you present these concepts? Without an exercise this is hard. Accessibility for example. How do we touch on these? Need more structure to help learners dig in.
- Brian: have gone over to slides. Google docs slide repository is really useful. It is a classroom experience, not a live coding experience. Slides exist to structure, organize, prompt etc. Not sure I'd go back to not using them. Don't love them, but too much cognitive load to make up an alternative that does the same job.
- Karen: I structure my etherpad
- Kate: going all-in on Slides may be different from the way I use them, which is occasional images. Then I get feedback that there is a lot of back and forth, so maybe I would get better feedback if I went all-in. What are the things we do that we really don't like doing? This could be a really useful discussion for the future. Tend to avoid actibities that i don't like doing. Would have hated myself as a student.
- Mark L: Have been using a shared google doc, maybe a hybrid because I can embed images with outline while encouraging common notetaking (which there is still strong resistance to... maybe we should link to research on this...). Highlighted text that I want to be sure to cover, has picture, not a slide, allows for notes.
- Brian: when we introduce technology, we have to teach it. When? Why do we take them out of their comfort zone?
- Jeff: slides are super useful and the ultimate in passive learning. That fuels reluctance. It takes time to learn to use the etherpad, but it seems ok to me.
- Sarah B: will share slides in repository. Slides are presented in Zoom, then they focus on Etherpad or Zoom. Having a few keywords in the slides helps with non-native English speakers.
- Kari: I do look to see what is the main idea that I want to drive home, especially for text heavy sections, use slides to remind me what to talk about. Diagrams and visuals is great, but it helps remind me what's next
- Sher! I use slides but also rely heavily on co-Trainer. Still use Etherpad while showing slides, want them to be familiar with Etherpad because it is something we use. Rely on co-Trainer to add things to the Etherpad, putting the next prompt on the slide and in the etherpad at the right point.

- Slides: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10ncHtw4ZtNZD0ozW0rG5C-Q4yFetRY1t is the repo on google drive that has all sorts of useful stuff

## Announcements
- We will not be scheduling Bonus Modules for Q1 2022 at this time. If you expressed interest in teaching one, consider planning to dedicate that time to help out with updates instead.
- Mike: do we need to train people to teach in person when they have to go back?
- Sarah: had this question come up in a recent teaching demo. Recommended having experienced instructors in the room. Posted to Twitter: https://twitter.com/microStevens/status/1461006439271616513
- WAT will be hosting a community discussion next week December 7 (2 slots) to talk about upcoming developments regarding online workshops. If you are an Instructor, please come if you are going to be teaching online workshops in 2022
- Instructor Training Core Team will be on holiday December 20 - January 2. In case of emergency, please use/cc team@carpentries.org
- Self-nomination form for Trainers Leadership is open now through January 18. Don't be shy! This is a manageable role that supports key decisions and community mechanics and offers guidance for Core Team. All voices are important, including new Trainers. https://forms.gle/LCrZ4kJQQtmPYUNp7
- Upcoming (7 Dec and  8 Dec) Community Discussion to discuss new developments for online workshops.
- https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/11/online-workshops-future/
## Workshop Administration FAQ with Danielle Sieh
- Mix and match: Right now this is still a grey area. In 2022 we hope to fully flesh out what a Carpentries branded workshop will be. Technically this is still a pilot. Whenever your workshop deviates from the core for each lesson program, that is a mix and match. SWC and DC, only Python, 2 sections of Library Carpentry... etc. Only allowed for Self Organized workshops. Local community, you know your audience. Centrally organized we only have so much time for people to get together, our instructors are familiar with core workshops.
- https://carpentries.org/workshops/#workshop-core
- Recruiting for self-organized workshops - people try to do this on our channels, but how should they do this instead, we don't like to be mean to tell them they can't do this on our channels.
- Danielle: we do have mailing lists on topicbox that you can use to recruit for SO workshops. Local or group specific topicbox or slack channel. Just not Discuss list, #general channel on Slack, Instructors list on topicbox or #instructors list on Slack
- https://carpentries.org/workshop_faq/#if-i-need-help-recruiting-instructors-supporting-instructors-andor-helpers-for-a-self-organised-workshop-what-are-my-options
- Sher: we do redirect to these other resources when they post to our general channels by accident
- What's next?
- Sher: we lean on local communities to help with the what's next. For us, it's hopefully getting involved with The Carpentries, become an Instructor, become a Helper. But if they want to learn more curriculum, we don't have anything just yet.
- Can CO credits be used for... something else?
- Sher: membership is changing, not sure what is happening with that
- Charging for workshops, paying for lunch etc
- Sher: we recommend charging a nominal fee to ensure that people show up/ reduce no-shows. $5, $25, $30 (USD). Some organizations need these funds to provide lunch. Up to you.
- What am I supposed to do with this certification after I get it?
- Danielle: we hope that you will come teach CO workshops! In addition, it's great for your resume, opportunities to teach
- Karen: promo list on this page: https://carpentries.org/become-instructor/
- Sher: Also voting to determine the next EC
- Danielle; another benefit is you can host your own SO workshops
- Partial attendance when people register for different sections separately
- Sher: we have been talking about this. Back in 2018 we stopped receiving attendance data and get an average number, but for future forecasting we do need that number. For now recommendation is do attendance by day. We can look at attrition. In the future (2022) we hope you will see more guidance on metrics.
- Kari: are you asking about reporting attenance or surveys?
- Mark: Combination. There is a core tha appears for all workshops, some start but don't finish, some come just for 1 topic. Real mix. Counting by day and topic makes some sense but survey data... could still be useful even if they only plan to attend one? but up to you. Many fill out pre but not post survey even if they attend all. what would be a base to report? If we don't report our helpers and instructors don't get credit, so we want a baseline for what's helpful to report
- Sher: This brings in some ideas about our metrics which will go on our list. Getting credit, whenever you do a workshop as long as you are using the surveys, regardless of whether someone fills it out that counts, with workshop website and CoC etc. Requirement for submitting attendance data has been removed so no obstacle to getting credit for instructors
- CO workshop you have to use the core curriculum of a lesson. Then once you move away from that it becomes a mix and match workshop. Only for SO workshops. You can add in other material if you are using our core curriculum, but once you add in other material that is not Carpentries material it becomes a Carpentries-inspired workshop. That includes Incubator lessons.
