# Trainer Meeting May 6 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210506T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



**Others attending**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton, MQ
- Zac Painter, Stanford University
- Ariel Deardorff (she/her), UC San Francisco
- Mark Laufersweiler, Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
- Kelly Barnes, The Carpentries
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries
- Sara King (she/her), AARNet
- Murray Cadzow (he/him), University of Otago
- Arindam Basu, University of Canterbury
- Megan Guidry (she/her), New Zealand eScience Infrastructure
- Evgenij Belikov, (he/him), EPCC, University of Edinburgh
- Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF, Brisbane, Australia
- Masami Yamaguchi (she/her), Griffith University, Brisbane, Australia
- Ann Backhaus, Pawsey Supercomputing Centre, Perth, Western Australia
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

**Notetaker:**

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Evgenij and David. 2 day online. 2-3 didn't come out of 26. Google doc instead of etherpad. Hiccups with microphone on day 1(for Evgenij). People were a bit reserved, a couple really active but sluggish to put hands up. Followed curriculum quite strictly, so day 1 not very heavy on breakouts and lots on the second day(people found this unbalanced). David used Open Broadcasting Studio over zoom, people liked seeing his picture in a circle on top of the shared screen, more like a stream. Used slides -- thanks Brian and Sara and Darya. Remixed. Some people used the drawing feature of zoom to visually support what was being said. Maybe could feedback as figures into the material later on. E.g. picture in 3rd chapter of how learning book, fragile motivation with environment/ learner -- someone did a venn diagram instead of the table in the book.
- Didn't manage to export the zoom chat. David took screenshots. Maybe you need to be owner rather than host or cohost. Were answering questions in chat, and somethings didn't make it into google doc
- on Linux the middle button works to get things copied out of the chat...
- Zoom fatigue!
- Ann and Matthias. 4 1/2 days online. 15 attendees.  this was an Instructor training - forgot to mention!
- seemed long (protracted) -- long weekend in the middle. But seemed more focused, less fatigue.
- We did less talking, pulled out main points and had group discussion. Got feedback that they wanted more breakouts, so we did a lot of that around core topics pulled out. They had really good questions and engaged well with the material. Doing things differently... maybe 2 days with one day between? Didn't want people to miss a session without being able to make it up (they wanted to make it up). Offered makeups. 2 people in the first and. 2in the second. Did take more time for us, but only one Trainer had to run them. Split the materials by half days, seemed to work well but did toy with the idea of alternat
## Announcements
- Look for an email re curriuculum update review sessions
- Reminder: teaching tips for Instructors can be submitted for our Newsletter using this form: https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
- Scheduling 2021 Q3 trainings - poll to go out Monday May 10
## Topic of the month:
- Curriculum updates
- Rendered pages: http://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/
- Massive PR to main repo: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215
- Can also interact on data-lessons repo (e.g. "improve this page" button will initiate edits there). However, submissions there are less likely to attract discussion. Great for typos or quick fixes, less great for substantive suggestions or concerns.
- Trainer Training
- Room 1
- TT tends to be somewhat open ended, unstructured, vague?
- "Not sure scaffolding
- "
- Get the mindset of 'Grad school' vs 'Undergraduate'. You have to define yourself what you want to learn, rather than that being laid out for you. Might benefit by making that change in structure clearer at outset.
- Could also have more pointed guided questions for reading so that you have context for what understanding you want to get out of the reading.
- Emphasises difference in backgrounds of both learners and instructors/trainers, and focuses more on the 'why' of what we do rather than the 'how'.
- Room 2
- We forgot to take notes!
- Sara - trainer training was good for having the time to reflect on the 'How Learning Works' material; the timing was good haviing 2 hrs every week over 8 weeks (this was pre-pandemic so new to me), also got a really good heads up on how to host Zoom meetings (did not know how important that would become!)
- Room 3: Daniel, Megan, Ariel
- Ariel - went through with Karen, great into to curriculum,
- Megan - Read through How Learning Works - great text and good to be able to dive deep into it together
- Daniel - No sure what to change
- Megan - Sometimes it was hard to keep in mind what layer of the Carpentries you were addressing (thinking about instructor learners not learner learners, very meta
- Ariel - yes, distinguishing what material that is being discussed could be tricky
- 4 day format is Daniel's preference (what he has done) he realises this is not the exact order of the 2 day, so a four day view would be helpful
- Daniel- wow the PR is big!
- Ariel - did not realise at first how much freedom trainers have/ flexibility... You can build in activities when you feel like it is needed
- Megan - Get a better sense of what are the more important parts the more you teach it
- Sometimes can be hard to zoom out and see the big picture of what you are teaching and how all the concepts fit together.
- DAniel - would be good to have a text only form (Ethernet template) - is there a new one for the new lesson format?
- https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/etherpad/index.html
- Does trainer training have learning objectives?
- Room 4 - Kelly, Mark, and Jeff
- Mark and Jeff - It is so useful to have the science and research to back up what we already knew worked and why it works
- Jeff - Every time I teach instructor training it makes my teaching better in all areas
- Room 5 - Zac, Ann, Masami
- thought that having individuals lead parts of sessions/whole session worked really well
- does it appear somewhere how to be inclusive of instructors AND trainers/helpers? not overtly anyway. We discussed inclusivity of learners, and application to instructors/helps, but I thought it was a great question, that we didn't specifically think about until we were asked about it (Ann)

# Trainer meeting, May 6  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210506T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

**Others attending**
- Kari L. Jordan
- Aleks Nenadic
- Mateusz  Kuzak
- Maneesha Sane
- Sarah Stevens
- Mike Trizna
- Angela Li
- Carrie Brown
- Kelly Barnes
- Lex Nederbragt
- Kate Hertweck
- Karen Word
- Alexander Konovalov
- Trisha Adamus
- François Michonneau
- Sarah Brown
- Margareth
- Erin Becker

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

**Notetaker:**

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
## Announcements
- Look for an email re curriuculum update review sessions
- Reminder: teaching tips for Instructors can be submitted for our Newsletter using this form: https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
- Scheduling 2021 Q3 trainings - poll to go out Monday May 10
## Topic of the month
- Curriculum overview:
- Rendered pages: http://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/
- view changes rendered here
- Massive PR to main repo: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215
- here is the best place to provide feedback on the changes
- Can also interact on data-lessons repo (e.g. "improve this page" button will initiate edits there). However, submissions there are less likely to attract discussion. Great for typos or quick fixes, less great for substantive suggestions or concerns.
- Major changes:
- mindset was shrunk and moved into motivation
- an equity, inclusion, and accessibility episode was added instead
- concept maps are moved in wiht mental models and an example that doesn't use code, but it might not be final; other examples are welcome here
- addressed as many issues as possible
- general removing programming jargon and programming-specfici references
- reduce external pointers throughout the curriculum, working to consolodate these to a more manageable place to collect them.
- this reduces maintainance load
- also common instructor trainee feedback that there is too many links ro reosurces
- Mateusz: got feedback from some trainees that citations are lacking in the lesson
- links to references were not removed.
- Goal is to make a better annotated bibliography
- Goal: as much feedback as possible before trainer trainees begin studying the curriculum in June (the second half of trainer training is studying the curriculum, first half is How Learning Works)
- Slides available - get a lot of feedback from Instructor trainees that they want more visual references. We don't have a good answer yet but most Trainers have something they are comfortable with, but as a new Trainer you don't know what you want to do yet
- Breakout room 3 (Aleks, Alex, Erin)
- Explaining to future Trainers what their commitments will be like. There is a document that lists all of this, making sure to go through this with the Trainer trainees so they know the expectations. How to calculate their contributions.
- a page (or entry in the handbook, or a blog post) about trainers training - how often does it happen, what's the timeline, what's the process of selection and of subsequent training, when the next round could happen, what will be needed to apply, what would constitute a successful application? Link to a rubric.
- currently this rubric is private to avoid "overfitting" of applications, but the goal is to make it more transparent, balancing with keeping responses informative
- explanation to attendees about that their future comittents and expecttions would be like and how they can collect different credit units as per the Trainer Agreement (draw their attention to this recource): https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-agreement
- Breakout room 5 (Mateusz, Carrie, Angela)
- Mateusz was the last cohort to be trained by Greg. Read chapter, wrote blog post, and then Greg provided feedback. Writing the blog posts took a while - not enough time. Was a small group, which was nice, but having a large group is good
- Angela has read sections of this book and recommends it as well for further reflection and learning (maybe as additional reading if people are interested): https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Becoming+a+Critically+Reflective+Teacher%2C+2nd+Edition-p-9781119049708
- A did not always do all the reading before each meeting (life got in the way) but meetings were still quite useful
- We enjoyed the switching of roles every meeting a lot - thought it did a good job of democratizing participation
- "A Planning Tool for Incorporating Backward Design, Active Learning and Authentic Assessment in the College Classroom" - https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1126730
- Appreciated how individuals were selected into the program. The people in the program make it! Really enjoyed getting to learn from fellow trainees, who are now very involved in the Carpentries -- cohort structure was great.
- Breakout room 2 (Maneesha, Kelly, François)
- We talked about the potential for refresher courses in the format of a bonus module semi-regularly
- We also talked about adding some content about our workflows and admin information for Trainers
- Breakout room X (Margaret, Mike Lex)
- we talked about how the Carpentries Instructor Training and materials enable 'making better teachers' beyond Carpentries Instructors, e.g. teachers in IT in Ethiopia and Teaching Assistants in Norway
- Breakout room (Kari, Kate, Trisha, Sarah)
- we talked about our experiences with instructor training and tried to identify how it changed
- liked reading and discussion of How learning works (at least Sarah did)
- Thought it might be good to get into the curriculum a bit more,
- found the observing instructor training to be useful / apprentice-type model is valuable
- suggestion of getting a chance to practice teaching the instructor training materials
- managing logisics is just as challenging as the actual content being taught! +1
