# Trainers Leadership Committee meeting, 1 August 2025

Present: Cera, Amanda, Jon, Jesse, Jannetta, Sher

## Agenda and notes
- Introductions: Welcome Jannetta!
- Core team update
	- Blog post
		- Need Jannetta's bio
		- Update the content (recommendations provided)
	- Instructor Trainer Incentive 
		- Discuss to see what type of incentives or recognition Instructor Trainers may like
		- Do this for the next monthly Trainer meeting topic on 7 August
	- Pretix reminder 
		- Still piloting Pretix for our meetings. 
		- Maneesha is handling this fully
- Current activities
	- Welcome Jannetta!
	- What to cut project
		- What does "delivered" look like for this project?
			- One potential model to consider: <https://swcarpentry.github.io/r-novice-gapminder/instructor/instructor-notes.html#lesson-plans> or <https://datacarpentry.github.io/r-socialsci/instructor/instructor-notes.html#lesson-plans> 
			- Amanda: We should be mindful of the 2-day vs 4-day structure
			- Sher: Let’s also not stifle creativity - we should be giving a rubric about where you can cut if you need more time - but Trainers need to be able to make decisions on the fly, don’t want to create rigidity.
			- Jesse: Also the technical lesson plans may need to be more rigid like that; at a quick glance, we want to be able to see when we’re in the middle of it “okay, I can cut this” or “I can’t cut this”
			- At most recent training Jesse did, they did not cut much
		- What is the plan (if any) for disseminating it when we're done with it?
			- In Trainer Instructor notes (curriculum)
			- In Trainers meetings
			- Comms plan as the end of the project; send to mailing list, non-verbal in the Trainer meeting
		- What needs to be done?
			- Go over what is there and write out a complete plan that is easy to reference.
			- Trying to get more standard practice for both what to cut but also what not to cut.
			- Should follow the Questions and Objectives for each episode.
			- If something could be cut, it may not need to be under the Objectives.
		- Potential for future meetings to go through the curriculum piece by piece to put together what to cut.
			- This is approved.
			- Homework to browse the first couple of episodes in the Instructor Training.
	- Potential discussion topics for next Trainers meetings
		- Trainer engagement and Trainer incentives to keep motivation high (picked this one)
		- Staying active as a Trainer
		- Discussion on concept maps
- Proposals and pull requests
	- Work to merge PR #336: revise trainers meeting guide <https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/336>
	- Jon will handle requested changes
- Additional business
	- Redaction check (standing item)
- Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
	- Homework for what to cut project: Go over first couple of episodes in Instructor Training
	- Prep for ITLC blog post
		- Jon: overview of last year
		- Cera: next year goals
		- Jannetta: bio
		- Sher: send out blog post
	- Sher: Add Jannetta to Slack and Github
- Leaders for the trainers meetings?
	- 7 August UTC 14:00: Cera/Amanda
	- 7 August UTC 23:00: Amanda/Jon
- Next meeting: Friday, 29 August, 17:30 UTC
