# Trainers Leadership Committee meeting, 30 June 2025

Present: Cera, Amanda, John, Jesse, Sher

## Agenda and notes

- Core team update
	- ITLC Blog and bios - 2025
		- Members should try to get bios to Sher this week.
	- Curriculum Discussion to be aware of: <https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1835#issuecomment-2962884575>
	- AI discussion with trainers
		- We could lead an informal conversation with Instructor Trainers about AI, to give instructors an opportunity to weigh in during the second monthly trainers meeting on July 17th.
	- We all have access to Trainers repo - thank you Sher!
- Current activities
	- Discuss setting up a trainers meeting
		- Thanks to Jesse for setting up the Etherpad for the trainers meeting 
		- Steps: [See Trainers meeting guide](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/trainers_meeting_guide.md)
			1. Template for meetings at the bottom of the trainers Etherpad
			2. Update time and date links
			3. Send out reminder on Topic Box (instructor-trainers channel)
				- Find email template in draft trainer's meeting guide
		- Potential discussion topics
			- What to cut in instructor meetings? https://codimd.carpentries.org/ttt-changes-working-dec2024?both#
			- Instructor engagement/staying active
			- Discussion on concept maps
	- Any bites on 5th member?
		- Who can we woo?
- Proposals and pull requests
	- [draft trainers meeting guide #310](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/310)
- Additional business
	- Redaction check (standing item)
- Action items
	- Bios by end of the week
- Who will lead the trainers meetings
	- Morning: Jesse
	- Evening: Amanda
- Next meeting: 31 July 2025 00:00 UTC
