# Trainers Leadership Committee meeting, 29 August 2025

- Present: Jon, Jesse, Amanda, Sher, Jannetta
- Apologies: Cera

## Agenda and notes

- Core team update
	- [Blogpost](https://carpentries.org/blog/2025/08/introducing-the-new-instructor-trainers-leadership-committee-for-2025/) 
	- Learner Centered Training 
		- Core Team looking at ways to offer trainings for learners who want to acquire the skills and pedagogy but not teach workshops. This is a large potential market.
		- Aligns well with the “What to cut” project. Readjusting the order and what can be taken out about Carpentries and teaching workshops.
			- But it is different in that goals are different.
			- One full day of training.
			- What to do for teaching demonstrations is a bit of an open question. Demonstrations are part of the pedagogy but less emphasis on teaching lessons.
		- Goal is to have something for Q1. Pedagogy but not become instructor trainers.
		- Will increase teaching opportunities for instructor trainers.
		- Revenue source but membership will have access.
- Current activities
	- Review notes from last Instructor Trainers Meeting
		- Three trainers meeting times to deal with time zones?
			- Roll for someone in time zones that are currently less well served by current times. For example, a "meeting coordinator" role that would be less intensive than Core Team or ITLC roles.
			- Gather some information on the geographic spread of trainers to see what time zones are less well served by current times.
	- Potential discussion topics for next Trainers meetings
		- How do we handle it when trainees miss more than one hour? What is the expectation for us or the Core Team, or the trainees themselves?
			- Can miss 4 hours (2 hours/day for a two-day or 1 hour/day for a four-day) – Sher will ensure accuracy.
			- Leaving notes in the attendance sheet helps the core team.
		- How do you handle borderline (i.e., not sure whether to pass or ask to repeat) teaching demos?
		- How to be detailed about attendance notes
		- Deciding and communicating about borderline cases for accomplishing the training and teaching demo.
			- How to communicate with co-instructor about when trainees come in and out?
		- Presentation of topic: Managing borderline cases: instructor training and teaching demos
- Proposals and pull requests
	- PR #336: revise trainers meeting guide <https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/336>
- Additional business
	- Redaction check (standing item)
	- Confirm the next back up meeting 
- Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
	- Sher: Time zone data on trainers
	- Jon: revise trainer meeting guide
- Leaders for the trainers meetings?
	- 4 September UTC 14:00: Jesse & Jannetta
	- 4 September UTC 23:00: Jon (Amanda will help if she’s able to)
- Next meeting: [Friday, 26 September, 17:30 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250926T1730)
	- Sher will be absent
