# Carpentry Trainers Group Meeting

# Date: 2016-08-25, 1:00 UTC (2016-08-24 18:00 PST)

## Sign In

Attending  
Erin Becker  
Rayna Harris  
Greg Wilson  
Tracy Teal  

Apologies  
Christina Koch  

## Agenda  
1) Introductions  

2) Schedule for upcoming training events  
- All currently scheduled training events are in AMY. City College of NY (CUNY) will be Nov 3-4. 
Primarily graduate teaching fellows with lots of formal pedagogical training. 
Greg will be teaching and focusing on technical skills rather than pedagogy.

3) Update on open instructor training applications.  
- Invitations went out last week. 
There will likely be three sessions (one west coast North America, one spanning Europe/Middle East/Africa, and one in Australia/NZ). 
Checking on relevant partnership status to decide timing and locations.

4) Update on AMY development  
- Tracking is now live in AMY (migrated 8/16). 
Spreadsheet will be saved for archival purposes. 
Tracking in AMY is being tested out for the next few weeks, then will communicate with mentoring committee about transitioning to new 
system. Will need to put instructions in mentoring discussion checklist.
 
5) Discussion of how to recruit new trainers to be trained Fall 2016  
- General agreement that criteria should include previous demonstration of commitment to the Carpentries 
(but can be of many different types), realistic availability of time to complete the training program and do the work, 
and some sort of pedagogical experience (not including university teaching, which at least in US does not require formal training).  
- Discussion of whether we should run an open call or hand-pick a set of new trainers. Need an estimate of how many new trainers we need, 
where they should be located and how long it should take them to get through training. 
A curriculum and communication of commitments is being put together and will be shared around to Trainers group before next meeting. 
Request for curriculum to include: fixed monthly meeting times, clear milestones, clear calendar of teaching commitments.

6) Update on Canadian partnerships.  
