# Carpentry Trainers Group Meeting

# Date: 2016-08-10, 14:00 UTC (7:00 PST)

## Sign In

Attending  
- Erin Becker  
- Lex Nederbragt  
- Neal Davis  
- Christina Koch  
- Greg Wilson  
- Karin Lagesen  
- Jason Williams - first half  
- Anelda van der Walt  

Apologies  
- Steve Crouch 
- Rayna Harris  

## Agenda  
1) Introductions  

2) Update on open instructor training applications  
- About 150 applications. Greg, Maneesha and Erin will be doing first pass through applications in coming week. 
Trainer community asked to provide feedback on selection criteria and choices.  
- **Action item: Greg to coordinate Trainer involvement.**  
- **Action item: Greg to notify applicants that we are now reviewing applications.**  
- Question of what to do about solo instructors (only applicant in their geographical area). 
Should we ask them to ask some friends to apply or set up a guiding program. 
Discussion that guiding program takes a lot of resources. Asking friends may give us people who aren’t really interested. 
No decision made.  

3) Discussion of Guide programs  
- There was a similar mentoring program proposed last fall, but not adopted due to worry about time constraints.   
- **Action item: Karin to circulate to Trainer community.**  
- Current African Guides program has been successful, but a lot of work. Potential cultural issues.   
Important to think about how our core practices interact with other cultures as we expand.  

4) Update on changes to AMY  
- Should deploy to development server this week. Next week to the production server.
Chris hopefully to make short video to walk people through the steps before he goes back to school in two weeks.

5) Schedule for upcoming training events  
- Anelda van der Walt and Ariel Rokem will teach instructor training in person for Oregon State University in September; 
this will complete Anelda’s training.  
- Erin Becker and Tracy Teal will teach instructor training in person for UC San Francisco December 13-14th; 
this will complete Erin’s training.  
- Rayna Harris and Christina Koch will teach instructor training for SESYNC September 28-29; this will complete Rayna’s training.   
https://christinalk.github.io/2016-09-28-ttt-sesync/  
- Rayna Harris and Greg Wilson will teach online at MSU Oct. 21-22  

6) Discuss goals for Trainers group  
Use in-person time to:  
- Touch base about significant changes to the instructor training curriculum.  
- Plan strategy about process for getting new instructors/trainers and other logistical or policy issues.  
Broader goals:  
- Publish instructor training material in printed form. Raise credibility and provide payoff for the work we’ve done.   

7) Discuss how to decide process for selecting and training trainers.  
- Idea to be mentorship based rather than curriculum based.  
- Issue raised of sustainable scaling.  
- Staying true to mission of the Carpentries and our values.  
- When setting criteria for selection, important to keep in mind some people don’t have same access to the community. 
Should still be able to get involved. Proposal of having set of examples of types of involvement that count towards selection rather 
than strict defined criteria. Also possibility of financially sponsoring people (e.g. for bandwidth) who have socioeconomic reasons 
for not being involved, but needs to be after demonstration of commitment.  

Agenda item for future:  
- Decide whether to have Slack channel for Trainers.  
