# Trainer Meeting, 3 October 2024, UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241003T14 

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison - post



Others attending:   

     Fenne Riemslagh (she/her), Netherlands eScience Center

     Halle Burns (she/her), Princeton

    Jesse Sadler (he/him), Virginia Tech

    Amanda Kis, University of Oklahoma

    Oscar Masinyana

    Dimitrios Theodorakis (he/him), Met Office

    Ernestina Godoy (She/her), National Institute of Public Health (México)

    May Chan, University of Toronto 

    Claudia Guerrero S.

    Angelique Trusler, angelique@carpentries.org

    Zac Painter, Princeton

    Samantha Ahern (she/her), University College London

    Stéphane Guillou (he/him), University of Queensland Library

    Danielle Sieh (she/her/s), The Carpentries

    Yanina Bellini Saibene (she/her), rOpenSci, Austral University (Argentina)


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name/location/affiliation/pronouns (optional)/icebreaker: why did you decide to become a trainer :) 

    Pre/post discussion

     Sarah - recently taught with Nathaniel Porter

     

    Announcements

    The CT is working to provide an alternative to creating the Instructor Training website. Toby has created a page that could work. If interested please provide your insight to the repo: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1732#issuecomment-2363732210

    Instructor Training Trainees are going finishing their training and will be attending the Teaching Demos. They will be shadowing only. Please be sure to add their names to the attendance form

    Topic of the month

    Meet the new trainees! 

    Tips

    Sharing experience as teachers - observing workshops, what works and what doesn't - share those stories with your learners to help them discover what it's like in the real world

    When becoming a trainer it can be nerve wracking because you can feel like you have to model everything perfectly, but we are also modeling that we are not perfect, we can make mistakes and model that we are always learning can be good for learners and good for you as well

    Questions:

    Tips you would give trainer trainees for preparing for their very first workshop

    everyone will approach the curriculum differently and this is okay.

    For preparation, I review the materials (which I did very closely when I first started teaching it) and setup my own custom ether pad with notes and a copy of the template of the sections I’m teaching. I make edits and leave myself some notes in that doc (including exercises I can skip if needed).

    Best practices for when you don't pass an Instructor trainee on their first teaching demo

    This doesn't happen often

    Rephrase from "pass or fail" to another chance to continue learning and practice skills

    People tend to have confusion on how to start - start the demo by letting the demoer know the can assume people have learned up to the point where they are starting, they don't need to recap the prior material

    Utilise our Trainer Slack. People share and ask questions about demos often.

    The one I asked to repeat ran into an error and could not keep going.  I prompted them a bit but they were unable to continue so they needed the practice.  They had already signed up for another one before we got to the end of the demo session

    The one I wish I’d asked someone to repeat it for was someone who was feeling like they had to get certified before their training coming up and they joined on a Saturday for them (last minute) and were responsible for watching their child at the same time.  They were very distracted and had a hard time teaching.  I didn’t want to penalize them for having child care responsibilities but I think they could have used another practice session.

    When we are stressed, we don't always teach the best. So in a teaching demo, ask the trainee how they think it went. 

    Make it a light atmosphere. It's okay to joke and have fun. Make it as relaxed as you can. 

    When you have different approaches to teaching with your co-Instructor, do you have time before you begin teaching to work through how you will teach or do you work through it as you go?

    Co-instructing is both wonderful and terrifying. For new Instructors, is there a mechanism for us to be pired up with someone more experienced initially?

    Yes

    What has your process been like working with Instructors you've never taught with? Is it ever tense and awkward and how do you work through that? Do you debrief?

    You will often teach with different trainers, almost never teach with the same Instructor twice. Everyone has different teaching strategies and backgrounds, we all have resepct for that. We can talk about that in a nonjugmental way - why do we have different teaching strategies? It is typically not tense. It's okay to teach more directly from the materials, and it's also okay to not

    Schedule a meeting with co-trainer a couple of week ahead of time to divide content, get a feel for the co-Instructors teaching style. Debrief is always important. Could do a one up/ one down between yourself and the other trainer.

    Working with different trainers allows you to learn from them and vice versa

    The material is always there so learners can go back and look through it on their own as well

    Use breaks, or end of day to review the feedback from that day together. It is okay to make changes for the next day from the feedback received. 

    Look at the surveys, talk about the experience at the end of the training (last day)



# Trainer Meeting 3 October 2024, UTC 23:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241003T23

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Liz Stokes, ARDC, Sydney Australia

    Paula Pappalardo

    Matthias Liffers (he/him), Australian Research Data Commons, Perth Western Australia


Others attending:   

     Tim Norris

     Scott Peterson (he/his) UC Berkeley

    Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico

    Sara King (she/her), Adelaide, South Australia, AARNet

    David Palmquist

    Paula Pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

    Erin Graham (she/her), James Cook University

    Liz Stokes (she/they) Australian Research Data Commons


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 
This is probably all too much! I'm not necessarily going to follow up on all of these points, becuase time has limits, and so do I!  Read this as a window into a range of possibilities

    Practice rehearsing

    Get participants talking to the group within 10 mins of startingIdentify 2 activities for breakouts on the first day.

    Build concept maps for the first two days?

    Ensure all with the link ahve edit permissions on the google doc5 min breaks after 1 hour of sitting.Less expository introductions, more discussions on day 1

    Build a concept map of concept maps

    What would a worked example on cognitive load look like? (sketchplanations for cognitive overhead)How to reduce waffle? Start with a hook, explain the concept, back it up with an example, ask the group 'how does this relate to your experience?' What would you test before buying? Identify checkpoints, and where to direct for formative assessment.

    Draw a throughline from concept maps to teach most useful first, so that you can illustrate what is useful first, and what to build up towards. Consider reviewing concept maps and asking participants if any can be reused in furutre IT workshop

    Great exposition for the content of this workshop. Perhaps build this into a plain language intro of what the course covers.

    REmember to build in discusison for examples of encouragement / demotivation - stereotype threat, amplifying comments, equity champion Practice developing confidence moving through the curriculum. Picking up different modules and putting them down again. Rehearsing different paths trhough the material - paying attention to connecting up the key concepts, activities, the why behind certain activities etc

    Music selections - mainly by Matthias, were great. REally important part of setting the tone.

    How to help people keep on track? Start the activity on the hour?

    Make first live coding intentional, (encourage to swap contact details with peers for affinity group practice) and always rotate the groups

    Consider a slide, or a cartoon, about choosing an episode for live coding. Firstly, choose an episode from a lesson that you have been taught. If you've never been, choose one that aligns with something you do regularly, eg navigate file structure, create loops, load packages. If your experience of command line is novice, then choose navigating files and directories. This is good practice as a trainer to become familar with this content. 

    Consider making this a choose your own breakout activity. 

    Room 1: Code along: follow along as we show you how to create a workshop website.

    Room 2: Parallel play: Join if you are confident to create your own workshop website

    Room 3: Talk it through: Join if you want to talk about choosing lessons for your own workshop. 

    Scale back on activities on teh last day. I didn't read the room this time. On the last day, make the last half hour a one up one down group activity, and then the post training survey.

    Try to use neutral language when teaching - can be difficult because you may not know

    Code of Conduct feels heavy - 




Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name/location/affiliation/pronouns/icebreaker: why did you decide to become a trainer :) 

    Pre/post discussion

     

     

    Announcements

    The CT is working to provide an alternative to creating the Instructor Training website. Toby has created a page that could work. If interested please provide your insight to the repo: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1732#issuecomment-2363732210

    Instructor Training Trainees are going finishing their training and will be attending the Teaching Demos. They will be shadowing only. Please be sure to add their names to the attendance form

    Topic of the month

    Meet the new trainees! 

    Questions

    What is the easiest way to ensure teaching for the first time is with an experienced Instructor?

    Maneesha will make sure that when you are getting ready to teach she pairs you with an experienced trainer

    When we teach coding workshops, a newer Instructor will start and then an experienced Instructor will take over. Is it easier for new trainers to start at the end of the day or the second day, split it into a couple of hours, etc.? How does that work?

    When you're meeting with your co-trainer, you will divide up the work and you can pick and choose whatever you are most comfortable with. If there is something you are uncomfortable with, you can let the other trainer know. You can create a flow where no one is teaching for too long. Take the ones you resonate with most first. You don't need to learn it all at once.

    With 4/4hr days - some co-trainers like to split it into a day each, some split the day

    If someone is passionate about a specific topic, you can split by what you like the most

    The seasoned trainer will probably give you the first pick

    Which sections will help me accomplish my goals

    Comfort level for guiding the conversation around certain topics

    It can be good to have teaching notes when begining teaching. Does anyone have tips and tricks on how to generate notes when you first start teaching?

    One big similiarity is that you will find yourself obsessing over the content. It's okay to let the learners learn by coming up with the ac tivities. Rehearse and practice and use the activities. You will find a balance.

    Template for the etherpad for Instructor trainings. It's the highlights. You can have your own annotated copy on the side to make sure the points are covered

    You can use slides/slide notes. People use them and then adapt them to make them their own. Some people use slides and some don't - either way is okay. It can be nice to have both teaching styles so people can see both ways of teaching.

    slide deck, feel free to make a copy and update to your liking: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bNRMElQuh-R99hFDdldZoCLoplcCK7ox1zVYQv3eeTk/edit?usp=sharing

    Are there notes within the Instructor training that give you tips on what to cut?

    This is something that the Core Team is working on. Will create documentation for the trainers with suggestions for what to cut/skip. This will hopefully be helpful for all trainers because everyone will be getting the same information. 

    For now, check with your cotrainer since they will be experienced

    Can we point learners to material they can complete on their own?

    Yes, our curriculum is available. We send out an email a week before to give them access. You can let them know when you are skipping a section and have them go back and read it.

    Is there a particular part of the training that students typically have a hard time with?

    concept maps

    the first time the learners teach to eachother

    People get very nervous about teaching to eachother. managing peoples escalating anxiety over their first time teaching. Reframe the conversation: When you are teaching, you often feel very nervous. The nerves are because you are really interested in what you're doing and you want to do well. It's not about being judged, its about getting better. 
