## Trainer Meeting, 1 August 2024, UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240801T14

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Philipp Schäfer, Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena



Others attending:   

     Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries

     Nathaniel Porter, Virginia Tech (USA) & Trainer Leadership & IT Maintainer

    Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada

    Sher!, The Carpentries 

    Toby Hodges, The Carpentries

    Danielle Sieh, The Carpentries

    Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries 

    Lisanna Paladin


Apologies

     



Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name, pronouns, affiliation, location, and favorite workshop icebreaker.

    Pre/post discussion

    Expecting to need to change some slides.

    Announcements

    Q4 planning

    Reminder: new version of DC Ecology R lesson

    Changes to teaching demo tables (including addition of Image Processing)

    Topic of the month

    What sections of the curriculum do you move, or teach in a different order?

    this question goes with the question last month about what you tend to omit

    The way The Carpentries Core Values is situated is shoehorned in. The connection isn't made explicit. 

    Did Core Values at the end of the accessibility section to tie everything together

    End of part 2 leaves with 2 activities after the debrief https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1615 and reordering may help

    Moving how we operate before instructor checkout https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1698

    this may make even more sense with the new checkout process so people are familiar with the Carpentries before choosing "get involved" step

    Introduce Checkout earlier and let the group know we will go over it in more depth later because we talk about it so much before we get to that part in the curriculum

    Moved creating a website exercise out of the workshop and offer an extra event where people who aren't comfortable doing by themselves

    there is support for having the creating the workshop website exercise out o f the curriculum and having it as a seperate skillup exercise

    can help learners to pair them up depending on familiarity and lack of with doing something like creating the workshop website. this helps cut down time and allows the person with less experience to work through it with someone who has the skill already

    ask people to self identify whether or not they are comfortable setting up a repo in Github and making changes. Set up breakout rooms from there with atleast one person in the room who is comfortable with the activity

    Side notes:

    We maybe could be more clear in the instructor training to remind people/teach them to use the instructor view - including also trainers for instructor training




## Trainer Meeting, 1 August 2024, UTC 23:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240801T23&p1=1440

Training discussion (pre and post):




Others attending:   

     Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico

     Paula Pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

    Sher! / The Carpentries  

    Liz Stokes, (she/they) Australian Research Data Commons

    Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona

    Murray Cadzow (he/him) University of Otago

    Paola Corrales, (she/her)


Apologies

     




Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: Liz

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name, pronouns, affiliation, location, and favorite workshop icebreaker.

    Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico - What recently brought you joy? It's a good, positive way to start - first encountered it here in the trainers community!

     Paula Pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center We use that in our recent IT! I like to ask for good book recommendations, or favourite CD!

    Sher! / The Carpentries  Recently I started using If you were green sticky or a laptop, or a script, which one would resonate with you most? Always interested to see various reasons for different 

    Liz Stokes, (she/they) Australian Research Data Commons - the Ropensci icebreaker

    Jeff Oliver (he/him), What's your favourite morning beverage, but also what's your local mythical creature

    Murray Cadzow (he/him) University of Otago Either favourite animal or favourite mythical creature

    Pao, Melbourne Australia, How many hours did it take you to get to this conference, (useR confrence, Saltzburg Austria). And I got the record for more than 30 hours! Also envious of the local people who could take a bus


    Pre/post discussion

    Announcements

    Q4 planning - same as Q3, so you'll get the form next week. Even if you're not available for any trainings, please take a moment to acknowledge that to us so we can understand our community's capacity

    Reminder: new version of DC Ecology R lesson - popped up via teaching demo Q in the trainers slack channel

    Changes to teaching demo table of good episodes to teach (including addition of Image Processing)


    Topic of the month

    What sections of the curriculum do you move, or teach in a different order?

    Sher - one section I tend to put together is the launches and landings. Previously move introductions up further, but now putting them together. Since last month's discussion - when we talk about checkout and how we operate, usially I talk about how we operate first, and then checkout after that.

    Jon - yeah, I like to have the checkout discussion on day 2 cos it gets them engaged. Relies on them doing the reading part of homework though

    Murray - we spilit it up to 4. days, so start of day 3/4 with what are all the things you want to know activity, and then blur the how we operate and checkout all together from that.

    Liz - don't tend to switch modules around, but more that we add in more time to spread it out through 4 days

    Murray - actually always pushed for time, no mater what we're doing. In a 4 day workshop, the first 2 days are very packed, whereas 3 and 4 is more loosely spread out. Would be intersted in bringing the theory into the later days if anyone has options/ideas

    Pao - we can use the lunchbreaks better for a 4 day session. When teaching in spanish, not the language the problme, but we need to spend more time explaining The Carpentries, and go deeper into introducing core concepts and details. Especially when people are not familar with The Carpentries.

    Jon - sounds like there's a lot of interest around managing that 3rd day. I find the DEI quite top heavy in terms of theory then activity. I like to move up the Carpentries practices for inclusive practices before the UDL section, so it reinforces the core values.

    Does anyone move sections or activities around to make things fit?

    Jeff - we had some time at the end of day 1 to do a one up one down (4 day training) to demonstrate the activity. Nice because the end of the first day, and the theory heavy nature of days 1/2 can be quite passive. 

    Jon -Last workshop I taught was with Erin, and she suggested moving it up. Helps bring the collegiatliy and then we gave them more time for the survey. 

    Sher - tend to drop rather than move bits. Often my focus is on getting participants engaged, even if it's not a discussion activity per se, but I like to ask questions and get learners to give examples to btreak up the lecture heavy nature of those days.

Trainers guide for Trainer meetings
The TLC are working on a meeting guide to suppor these meetings.
Can I ask for a brainstorm of topics for what you'd like to be discussing at these meetings?
Jeff - this is my perennial topic - core instructor tyraining, having some flexibility in contributing to the training, so being able to nominate for 3/4 trainers for instructor training.
Jon - often I don't sign up for 4 days bnecause of weekely commitments
Murray - didn't know my absolute ability but signed up anyway, and now with 4 trainers we are all filling each others' gaps. I don't think I've done IT with less than 3 instructors ever. Having a helper is super useful, especially online.
Pao - how did the applications for trainers went? Looking forward to welcoming the new trainers
Sher - we had 42 applications, accepted 26. Training will begin next week and going for 10 weeks. 2 cohorts, Mondays and Thursdays US. Definitely introductions to our new crew. Have the revised "How learning works"  - now it's 8 principles up from 7.
General interest from the group about how the application process was conducted. Seems like a bigger cohort than usual.
Liz - (nb, after the meeting idea) Could we spend some time uncovering different connection points across the Carpentries. We're not necessarly only in categories of Library/Data/Software/Instructor/Trainer; sometimes these overlap. It's not that easy to see which member orgs end up being a 'SWC-shop' or a Library Carpentry focus.  

