# Trainer Meeting, 5 December 2024 UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241205T14&p1=1440



Attending:   

     Cera Fisher, Velsera, Lakeville, CT, USA

    Aleksandra Nenadic, Software Sustainability Institute, University of Manchester, UK x

    May Chan, University of Toronto, Toronto, ONx

    Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico, Albuquerque NM, USx

    Jannetta Steyn (she/her), Newcastle University, UKx

    Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries, Florida - USAx

    Jesse Sadler (he/him), Blacksburg, Virginia USAx

    Halle Burns (she/her), Princeton University, USAx

    Olexandr Konovalov, University of St Andrews, Scotland, UKx

    Vasileios Lenis, University of Birmingham, UKx

    Oscar Masinyana (he/they), The Carpentries, SAx

    Sarah Clarke (she/her), ACENET, Nova Scotia, Canadax

    Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, Virginia, USA (sorry, had to drop out)

    Tim Norris (he/him), University of Miami, Floridax

    Danielle Sieh, she/her, The Carpentries, Columbus OHx

    Ernestina Godoy (She/her), Cuernavaca, Morelos, México

    Annajiat x



Training discussion (pre and post):




Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name, pronouns (optional), what is something you plan on doing during your time off?

    Pre/post discussion

    Jannetta - what are the things we can cut


    Announcements

    This week Tuesday was Giving Tuesday. You can read the blog (https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/12/support-the-carpentries-transition-to-greater-autonomy/) to learn more! Also, it’s not to late to contribute if you are interested. Please share with your networks as well. 

    We have update the Carpentries Website (https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/11/the-carpentries-websites-relaunched/)! The Carpentries Handbook (https://docs.carpentries.org/) will be launched next Monday!!! Thank you for your patience and understanding. If you notice any links broken please don’t hesitate to let us know! Read the blog post (https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/11/the-carpentries-websites-relaunched/) for more information.

    Next meeting will be February 6 1400 UTC and 2300 UTC 

    Topic of the month

    Year in review, update from and information about the Trainers Leadership Committee.

    General year in review. This is an opportunity for feedback and reflection on one year following the reorganization.

    What has worked well, remained consistent, or otherwise continues to be an asset to trainers and the community?

    What has worked less well than before? What do we miss?

    How can we (TLC and/or the broader community) improve?

    About the TLC

    Brief overview

    https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md

    https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md

    What the TLC has been up to this year

    Elections are coming up! We encourage nominations! What questions do you have about serving on the TLC?



# Trainer Meeting  5 December 2024, UTC 23:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241205T23&p1=1440


Attending:   

     Scott Peterson, UC Berkeley, USA

    Erin Graham (she/her), James Cook University, AU

    Liz Stokes (she/they), ARDC, AU

     Amanda Kis, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA

    Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico, US

    Karl Benedict (he/him), University of New Mexico, US (retired)

    Paula Pappalardo, Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, USA

    Murray Cadzow (he/him), University of Otagom NZ

    Kaija Gahm (she/her), University of California, Los Angeles, USA

    Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona, AZ, USAHeh



Training discussion (pre and post):






Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: Liz  - but I need to leave at 0:40 past the hour - if someone can continue the notes thanks Jon!

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name, pronouns (optional), what is something you plan on doing during your time off?


    Pre/post discussion

    Announcements

    This week Tuesday was Giving Tuesday. You can read the blog (https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/12/support-the-carpentries-transition-to-greater-autonomy/) to learn more! Also, it’s not to late to contribute if you are interested. Please share with your networks as well. 

    We have updated the Carpentries Website (https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/11/the-carpentries-websites-relaunched/)! The Carpentries Handbook (https://docs.carpentries.org/) will be launched next Monday!!! Thank you for your patience and understanding. If you notice any links broken please don’t hesitate to let us know! Read the blog post (https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/11/the-carpentries-websites-relaunched/) for more information.

    Next meeting will be February 6, 1400 UTC and 2300 UTC 

    Topic of the month

    Year in review, update from and information about the Trainers Leadership Committee.

    General year in review. This is an opportunity for feedback and reflection on one year following the reorganization.

    What has worked well, remained consistent, or otherwise continues to be an asset to trainers and the community?

     I think communications with trainers has been great, or remain consistent, and to me the slack Trainers channel has been very useful and you know the core team is there if you need them. I also think a lot of logistic changes like making the quarter surveys easier to look at and fill are very helpful, and I appreciate the time the new team put to do that.

     I haven't been a trainer for long enough to say, but I do appreciate these monthly meetings!

     I haven't been around for enough years to know what things were like previously, since I took the trainer training this year. I enjoyed the training and loved meeting new people and engaging with the trainer community on Slack. I think the Slack is great, and the new website is an exciting improvement.

    What has worked less well than before? What do we miss?

     We miss Karen a bit :) +1+1 (more than a bit!)

     

    Can't really comment on this because I wasn't around last year.

    How can we (TLC and/or the broader community) improve?

    Karl: While I've been less engaged in the second half of this year of change I think it is critical to acknowledge that change is not easy or quick. We have gone through a lot of adjustments and recalibration of expectations and processes this year and made great progress, but we also need to understand that we aren't done yet and a new normal is still emerging. A lot of good work has been done so far and we need to continue to seek out opportunities for broader community engagement to keep in touch with what is working, where experimentation can be productive, and being flexible in how we emerge from our continuing state change. 

    I think TLC can give themselves a little TLC. We never accomplish everything we want to accomplish (like resolving those issues prior TLCs left around ;) I would be curious to know more about why TLC feels like they didnt' do as much as planned (specifics?)

    I'm curious what the plan is moving forward to compensate for the loss of many of the Core Team members. Do we anticipate any new sources of funding? Having served on the board of an all-volunteer nonprofit for a few years now, I know how difficult it is to get things done without paid staff, and I'm sure we'd all like to see The Carpentries returning to that capacity! Some smaller things: is there an org chart somewhere? I find it a bit hard to keep track of all the different subcommittees and who's on each one and how to find them. 

    I have a mental model of the different groups, but it doesn't have people's names on it. I imagine that could be a good collaborative whiteboard/miro activity

    Jon - don't necessarily share Liz' perspective we weren't super productive, actually went a couple months without meeting, but taking a bigger role in running the trainer meetings. 

    Jeff: Appreciate the work even if it's not the exciting stuff. Acknowledge that the change/challenges was not the best part of the community. Understanding why it happened, 

    Jon: here's a segue to info about the TLC

    About the TLC

    Brief overview

    https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md

    https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md

    What the TLC has been up to this year

    Liz: A lot of the TLC work has been about meeting processes, ways in which the TLC can manage scope and responsibilities. It has been a confusing year, and in terms of supporting the community we may not have found the things we most needed to work on. There are challenges in particular related to working across time zones with a global community. We put a lot of effort into working through some backlog of issues in the trainers GitHub repository. [JW note - issues are topics or questions proposed for the TLC and/or broader community to address or engage with.] One thing excited about next year is N. Porter's pilot of running the instructor training as a for-credit course at his institution. Good chance for discussion between Nathaniel and his co-instructor and the broader community. 

    Sher: Much help from the TLC this year. Especially, taking over the coordination of trainer meetings, Also, support for smoothing out processes and assisting with Core Team work including trainer status renewal, workflows, other important topics that may not have been visible to the community.

    Liz: It has been a hard year coming to terms with reorg - new directors of the trainer community. Also realized that community needs to have space to realize the full impact of the changes. 


    Elections are coming up! We encourage nominations! What questions do you have about serving on the TLC?

    Kaija: What about day to day tasks, how do you work, what is typical?

    topics for discussion submitted via github issues, thinking about these questions about how we manage the decision making while we resolve these questions, so there's structure to manage an asynchronous process

    managed via monthly meetings


