Trainers Leadership 2024-05-10

Attendance

Present: Jon, Liz, Intekhab, Sher

Apologies: Nathaniel, Annajiat

Notetaker: Intekhab

Agenda and notes

1.  Actions from last meeting (Liz)
	- Finish [blog post](link redacted) with bios (Liz and Jon) within the next couple of weeks (April 30).
		- Ready to go! (by next week)
	- Confirm process for approving minutes (Jon, by April 20)
        	-   Clarified with Nathaniel:
			1.  The current process is to merge the pull request as soon as everyone provides approval. Alternatively, in cases where not everyone has given approval, we can merge the pull request after a month if no issues or questions have been raised.
            		1.  Approval can be given in Slack or within the pull request.
            		2. Liz: Move to vote approval of new window for approval of meeting minutes- within 2 weeks of the meeting
            		3. Some discussion of process
			2. Jon - proposing (github issue) regarding the time window and discussion during meeting
	- Review and add notes to issues that may be closed. By next meeting.
		- Apply labels in issue: "trainer meeting" and "ready for archive"
		- [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50) (Jon)
    	- All - choose a couple of issues to resolve. Document new, related processes or other justification for resolving and archiving.
1.  Core team update (Sher!) 
	- Instructor Training Q3 Scheduling poll went out on Monday:
		- Closes May 17th, link:[https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeLUVz1SkIMORVpKsSfgz1oEemRcg2gYt9THftA5aTJkWnFVQ/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeLUVz1SkIMORVpKsSfgz1oEemRcg2gYt9THftA5aTJkWnFVQ/viewform) 
        	- Ping in slack as for reminder - Liz volunteers for AU timezone
	- Trainer Meeting 
		- Core team - in retreat first week of June
		- Proposal, June 6th/7th TLC member leads or cancel first and use the backup meeting instead
			- All TLC members present unavailable June 6/7, so the first meeting will be canceled in favor of using the backup meeting
1.  Trainers Issues
	- Several issues in [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues fall between responsibilities of the Director of Training and Workshops, the Trainers Leadership Committee and moderators of Instructor Training curriculum. Our action from last meeting was to review issues and tidy this up.
	- Implementation of Trainer Status Renewal, 2023 (2nd try) - approved [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261)
    		- Liz & Sher summarise
		- Sher: Focus on rolling out trainer training, so end of this quarter - perhaps - to get a response on 2024 renewals getting any focus 
        	- Sher: A rubric to automate the process without taking the stress would be useful
		- Liz: Propose Core team approves facilitating the TLC to initiate the rubric
        	- Discussion needed for what support is needed from TLC to start the renewal process
	- Liz - Managing dormant GitHub issues
		- Is there a process for archiving?
        	- Jon: Proposal to use Martha's Rule to develop a process for closing issues (by 24th May)
	- Develop \"Trainer Meeting Guide\" - approved [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
		- Liz & Sher summarise
		- Is it relevant in 2024 - TT meeting (monthly) ?
			- Sher! - I want it!
	- \[Trainer Meeting\] Items to defer for determination by the elected committee [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50) 
		- Jon summarise
1.  Additional business
	- Redaction checks (standing item) 
        	- Jon - All looks ok - redaction not needed 
	- Confirm whether to use the next back-up meeting: May 23/24 00:00 AM UTC ([See in your timezone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Trainers+Leadership+Committee+%28Backup%29&iso=20240628T00&p1=1440&ah=1)) -
		- Sher - No
		- TLC - No
1.  Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
	- Jon will submit a proposal as a GitHub issue to update minutes approval to 2 weeks. (deadline May 24)
	- Someone from TLC to boost Q3 signup (with link) in Trainers Slack. (deadline ASAP)
		- Liz, week of 5/13 (done - to slack and Trainers list)
		- Jon, 5/16 last minute reminder
	- Jon will submit a proposal as a GitHub issue to determine a process for closing issues that do not include pull requests. (deadline May 24)
	- All: Tag a TLC label on issues that are to be discussed by TLC
1.  Next meeting: 
    a.  June 14 00:00 AM UTC ([See in your timezone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Trainers+Leadership+Committee+%28Primary%29&iso=20240614T00&p1=1440&ah=1))
