Trainer Meeting, 1 February 2024, UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240201T14&p1

Attending:   

     Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University, UK, (she/her/hers)

     Mateusz Kuzak (he/him) Netherlands eScience Center

     Pao Corrales (she/her), Buenos Aires, Argentina

     Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries, ZA

     Lisanna Paladin, Heidelberg, Germany

     Danielle Sieh (she/her), The Carpentries

     Grace Fishbein (she/her), Newfoundland, Canada

     Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries, USA

     Yani Bellini Saibene, rOpenSci, Argentina

    Jordan Pedersen (she/her), University of Guelph, Canada

    Aleksandra Nenadic (she/her), UK Software Sustainability Institute, Manchester, UK

    Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries, Norman, OK

    Hao Ye (he/him), University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA

    Mike Trizna (he/him), Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC, USA



Apologies: 

     Jon Wheeler, University of New Mexico, US

     Nathaniel Porter

    Annajiat Alim Rasel


Agenda: 

    Introductions 

    Name (pronouns), affiliation, something new you have tried to incorporate in 2024

    Announcements

    Re-introducing  The Carpentries Core Team 

    https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/01/reintroducing-the-carpentries-core-team/

    Coffee with the Executive Director

    https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024#L154

      Upcoming Trainers Meeting Feedback

    https://forms.gle/csU53eYSYrYgBHTB6

     Hope to align Trainers and Instructors and the work between the two communities

    Please take a few minutes to fill out the form, it is anonymous and has three questions

     


     Meet the Trainer Leadership Candidates

 https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/elections/Nominees2024.md

    Annajiat Alim Rasel

    Nathaniel Porter

    Liz Stokes

    Jon Wheeler

    Md Intekhabul Hafiz


What does the Trainer Leadership do?

    Visit for powers and responsibilities: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md

    Are there task committees?

    There are not currently task committees, the team typically works together. One person may take on a task on their own.

    Will be leaning on the Trainer Leadership team with the transition. The Core Team will be available as a resource. However, we will be relying on the team do the duties outlined in the document

    The current committee will have their seats until the end of February and the new leads will start in March. There are two members continuing on with the new group, and the outgoing members will help the incoming members get aclimated.

    If you have comments or concerns please don't hesitate to reach out to the Trainer Leadership Team

    Should we expect changes to the things that the leadership team is currently responsible for?

    There won't be changes to the document or responsibilities, but the Core Team will not be as active in the Trainers Leadership meetings, etc.

    The COre Team stepped in during the pandemic to make sure things could keep running. We want community governance to continue to lead, and the Core Team wants to back the community from a technical standpoint, how can we improve AMY infrastructure, etc.? Giving power to the community to lead so the core team can support with the infrastructure. 

Questions for candidates:

    Are there resources that would be helpful for you to serve in your role that do not exist yet?

    What is the activities plan the Leadership has for this 2024?




Trainer Meeting 1 February 2024, UTC 23:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240201T23&p1

Attending:   

     Mark Crowe (QCIF, Australia)

     Liz Stokes (Australian Research Data Commons, Sydney)

     Jon Wheeler (University of New Mexico, US)

     Angela Li (Princeton, US)

     Greg Chism, he/him/his (University of Arizona, US)

     Karl Benedict (University of New Mexico, US)

     Murray Cadzow, he/him (University of Otago, NZ)

     Jeff Oliver (University of Arizona, US)

     

     

Apologies: 

     Intekhab - Md Intekhabul Hafiz

    Nathaniel Porter




Agenda

    Introductions 

    Name (pronouns), affiliation, something new you have tried to incorporate in 2024

    Announcements

    Changes to support from the Core Team

    https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/02/changes-to-support-from-the-core-team-at-the-carpentries/

    Re-introducing  The Carpentries Core Team 

    https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/01/reintroducing-the-carpentries-core-team/

    Coffee with the Executive Director

    https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024#L154

      Upcoming Trainers Meeting Feedback

    https://forms.gle/csU53eYSYrYgBHTB6

     Hope to align Trainers and Instructors and the work between the two communities

    Please take a few minutes to fill out the form, it is anonymous and has three questions

     


     Meet the Trainer Leadership Candidates

 https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/elections/Nominees2024.md

    Annajiat Alim Rasel

    Nathaniel Porter

    Liz Stokes

    Jon Wheeler

    Md Intekhabul Hafiz


What does the Trainer Leadership do?

    Visit for powers and responsibilities: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md


Questions for candidates:

    Are there resources that would be helpful for you to serve in your role that do not exist yet?

    Jon: First time serving in this role, would like to take term understanding the current process. Serving the community can think of resources for trainers. Struggled with the Checkout process (takes longer to teach, understanding the need of the learners to checkout), are there more resources like the YT videos that will help trainees while in the classroom. 

    Liz: No don't know if they don't exist. Seems like this committtee is fairly oiled machine, like the changes to the checkout. Those resources my not be needed by the TLC but more about communication btwn organizers and Director of Community. Major goal to support trainer community through havnign less CT support. What is a volunteer role and the responsiblity of Core TEam

    What is the activities plan the Leadership has for this 2024?

    Jon: Initial we need to focus on the redistribution of the powers bc of the changes of the CT. Need to rebalance... what resources exist. How deciisons are made and processes are undertaken. Does it have to be formalized to certain degree. How to refrain responsiblities that support the Core Team 

    What were the challenges? 

    Having short meetings (1x a month) didn't get to everything wanted to. 

    Pick 1-2 targets that you want to focus on 

    Onboarding learning ie Github

    Delay in communciations btwn TLC and the CT 

    things took longer bc thought they needed input or approval from CT 

    Things TLC worked on: 

    New Instructor Curriculum

    Changes from the checkout 

    Represent the views from the trainers to the CT 

    Rebalancing CT work and Volunteer work, are there areas of work that could be taken up by the TLC from the CT, expanded opportunites for the team 

    Not goign to find out bc Karen/Kelly made happen so smoothly, so not sure what those things are

    The Core of the Carpentries is the Trainers.. IMportant they feel heard and supported. Reinforcning relationshop with the Trainers.. you are valued and essential to what the Carpentries values and receives. 

    In the nearer term, taking on the commuinty facing role is goign to be a priority from TLC 

    How is it accomplished? What was happening in btwn the meetings? 

    few processes for asynch activities. Review docs before the meetings. 

    Liz: consider having a later time... would like to have better engagments

    Discussion from earlier

    It is a committee and if ppl were on in the past they would still be around to help. Feel free to go them for shared knowledge. 


