Trainer Meeting, 2 May 2024, UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240502T14&p1=1440

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Sher (pre)

    When teaching 4 day trainings, how do you generally divide the curriculum? 



Others attending:   

     Angelique Trusler 

     Margareth Gfrerer

    Nathaniel Porter

    Toby Hodges

    Danielle Sieh

    Fredo Erxleben

    Jordan Pedersen (she/her)

    Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)

    Sarah Brown

    Maneesha Sane 

    Annajiat Alim Rasel


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name / Pronoun / Affilation / Location / next trip you will be taking 

    Pre/post discussion

    Sher!

    Jordan and Sher! will teach next week, have not taught a four-day format IT and would like tips

    Fredo: be prepared for your voice to need a rest. Switch between Trainers between days or within days, but not too often as it confuses trainees. (Unless you have lots of practice teaching together already.) Make sure you plan enough breaks for yourself. Take opportunities to switch between standing and sitting.

    Aim for 30 mins of break after each 90 mins of teaching.

    Angelique: 4 half days, 10min break for every 50 min taught, comfort break, stretching get the juices flowing. Also prepare learners for the homework. Set expectations. 

    Margareth: use flipped classrooms and Bloom's Taxonomy to keep things interactive as much as possible.

    Toby: familiarise yourself with the whole curriculum before teaching, so that you do not forget what was already covered and spend too much time teaching something that was already covered.

    Nathaniel: reading ahead lets you also be more careful about redirecting questions with “that’s a great question - we’ll talk more about it in 2 episodes” etc

    Jordan: longer breaks probably needed for online trainings because of screen fatigue. Try to encourage people to keep their video feed on at least half of the time.

    Fredo: we have used gather.town to mimic on some level how things work in a realworld environment. (e.g. they have to move a small avatar to a breakout room in the gather.town environment to join a breakout room. Some people have strong negative reactions to it but others have had a lot of fun.

    SarahB: Gathertown at least used to have significant barriers for screen readers (I personally really enjoyed events using it but it is not inclusive)

    SarahB: I monitor engagement va the etherpad. and remind people to use the breaks for a break, not to check email etc.

    Margareth: it can be the first time that many trainees to work with digital tools such as  Zumpad (https://zumpad.zum.de/ = similar to etherpad), ideaboardz (https://ideaboardz.com/), x-mind (x-mind.net), Miro (miro.com) ... This is also used to make the training more interactive.

    Announcements

    Trainer Training Applications will be opening on May 29. If you know of persons interested, be sure to tell then to apply 

    Q3 Training calendar 

    Planning to publish this next week. Please fill out the form even if you are not available to teach. The Instructor Training team will present a list of dates this time, and ask you to tell us which events you would be available for, instead of asking for your general availability as has been done in the past. Please give us feedback on whether this is working better for you or not.

    Topic of the month

    How much time is needed for demo prep? From the Trainers side. Is there more the Core Team and Trainers could do to support trainees to prepare for their demos.

    SarahS: minimal prep, to use opportunity to practice my improvisation skills. Send a reminder email 2 working days before, bcc-ing anyone on the wait list. Immediately before, I check the etherpad and assign a teaching order. 

    Jordan: not doing a lot of prep either. I send that reminder email a week before. Add a note to the etherpad that this information email has been sent already and to email me directly if they want to join. One person has turned up

    Toby: same as above, but I also use this template to prepare a document for notetaking https://pad.carpentries.org/tobyhodges-teaching-demo-template

    Nathaniel: sometimes somebody will choose a lesson outside my expertise. In those cases, I take some time to familiarise myself with the content.

    SarahB: open a tab with each starting point, arranged in order that trainees will be teaching

    Sher!: what are you evaluating, where you are not familiar with the lesson content?

    SarahS: looking at teaching skills, more performance than content. how fast are they speaking, how fast are they typing, adding examples from their own experience, etc? But I am quite familiar with all of the curriculum.

    SarahB: very similar, except that I am making sure that they are following the curriculum. I read along with the lesson as they are teaching.

    Maneesha: I have asked people to repeat when they have focused completely on content -- cramming in as many concepts as possible in the five minutes.

    Fredo: I look more at teaching skills. Re: registration system, I am most familiar with Indico. I like a content management system for this kind of registration.

    Maneesha: Technology Team is working on new event management systems. Hoping to have something ready to go in the next 12 months.

    What could Trainers and Core Team be doing to improve teaching demo logistics etc? Already mentioned new system for handling events, registrations, etc. Also working on automated email with info about checkout after attending Instructor Training. Anything else?

    AOB

    Fredo: conflicting/orthoginal interests of Carpentries and Helmholtz Association. set up self-organised IT event, but have very few signups so far. Were hoping to fill with more people without seat codes who can join the training without certification. But understand that The Carpentries does not want people attending without a code.

    Sher!: have had member organisations teaching self-organised IT events open to public but using seats from membership. Have stopped offering open training seats.

    Margareth: Likely to be a problem for trainings in Ethiopia as well, as we had been offering training for free to trainees from universities. 


    Sarah S: could an organization donate seats to others if they have seats that they will not use?

    Fredo: Need more time in advance to give people time to make room in their calendar to join the trainings. Should have retained the seats for training and used them. Organisational procedures can create a lot of effort if you do them wrong. If we help people do the procedures correctly it will help.




See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240502T23&p1=1440

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Jon Wheeler, (he/him), University of New Mexico (post)

    Since the change with checkout, the checkout section has been much shorter

    Sher, pre 

    will be implementing a "next steps" email

    For a four-day training, how do you split the material, do breaks, etc.?

    Have done with one trainer teaching the full half-day

    5 breaks - people often request to have more breaks

    Often do four days split over two weeks rather than one

    typically do 10:00 am - 3:00 pm - allows for extra hours and more breaks

    First two days feel like they have a lot of information

    Have found that many people enjoy the format but may be difficult to take the time off of work

    ALternate each episode

    Can give pre-homework homework

    gives them more time to prepare for demoing

    Four hour sessions - half hour break in the middle

    helps with time zone differences

    two Instructors, one does the session before break and one does the session after break

    Day three it feels much easier for Instructors because of the exercises - never finished early

    Have only taught four days with three total trainers

    Have more time for break and space things out

    Time can still get tight. Recommend the "practice with feedback" section take place at the proper time on day two because there has been a lot of lecture and it changes the tone. Would be in the latter half og the second day

    Five minutes to the hour is a great time to give breaks for people to refocus, move, etc.


Others attending:   

     Liz Stokes, (she/they) ARDC Sydney

     Mark Crowe, QCIF Brisbane

    Murray Cadzow, University of Otago

    Paula Pappalardo, Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, USA

    Danielle Sieh (she/her)


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name / Pronoun / Affilation / Location / next trip you will be taking 

    Pre/post discussion

    Sher!

    Announcements

    Trainer Training Applications will be opening on May 29. If you know of persons interested, be sure to tell then to apply 

    When will availability for Instructor Training in Q3 open?

    Monday Maneesha will send the email for signing up for Q3

    Different approach, picked dates to offer and Trainers can select which dates they will be interested in teaching. 

    It will still be a two-week time span before dates are confirmed.

    Will be an opportunity to give dates of availability

    Asking that people select that they wont be able to teach on the form if they are unavailable for the quarter

    WIll be accepting feedback on the new approach

    Topic of the month

    How much time is needed for demo prep?

    How do you prepare to teach? What is your ideal cutoff period for learners signing up?

    Generally go in a week before to find out who's signed up and send them a message. If anyone is signed up tat seems out of the time zone, will check with them to ensure they are prepared to do the demo at the time listed. Have had people show up at the last minute and asked them to come back at another time

    Ideally I send the email when the fortnight forward automated email from Calendly comes in, and people have registered. Often people don't add their lesson. A week's time for cutoff would be great. Would make an exception if someone is from local area. Generally would prefer that people are signed up by the Friday the week before the demo.

    Typically do an email a week beforehand. Will check again 24 hours before. Have had multiple people signup within 24 hours, but it worked out because of the low number that were signed up ahead of time. A four person demo would be ideal. As long as the content is in hand before the demo, doesn't matter wha tthey teach.

    Like to send email a week in advance. not comfortable with people signing up less than 24 hrs. ahead of time. If people are presenting well, don't need to fully know the lesson material. Like to sign up for odd times for own time zone to meet other people, etc. If someone signs up on the day, not confident that the presenter will be prepared.

    When people sign up last minute, it would be helpful for people to email the trainer running the demo to let them know they have signed up late. This way the trainer will atleast know someone will be showing up. Should be some consequence for not showing up at a demo without telling the trainer that you won't be there. It's a discourtesy to everyone. 

    Don't currently have anything on the demo site that says there is a cutoff time to when you can sign up. Recently there was a demo with a person who signed up 5 minutes to the demo, and they gave the best demo out of all of the ones given that day. With the change in checkout, now that Instructors are selecting their own episode to demo, there is much less preparation needed. 

    The technology team is currently working with an open source system that will hopefully help with signups being easier and giving us a little more control over signup.

    ACTION ITEM: Will go back and find out where changes need to made on the signups page with the core team and trainers leadership. 

    It seems like a week is a good amount of time for a deadline for signing up. Can leave last minute signups to the trainers. Will have something trainers can point learners to if they do show up late and the e trainer is not comfortable with it. 

    Would it be beneficial/possible to have a waiting list with the new system?

    Would be helpful for learners to have a wait list and then the trainer can say whether or not they can accept another person. 

    Waitlist for regular workshop. Wuould depend on the organiser to check the waitlist, do the emails, etc. Does take some time to do this and you have to pay attention.

    There is a note to ask people not to add slots on the signups page. Concerns about having a waitlist because it adds to the overhead.

    "Can the teaching demo host survey results give us any feedback from trainers on how much time is needed for teaching demo prep?" 
    Sher! indicated she would look into the survey results.



