# Trainer Meeting, 18 July 2024, UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240718T14&p1=%3A

Training discussion (pre and post):




Others attending:   

     Jordan Pedersen (she/her), University of Guelph, Expertise and Instruction!

    Danielle Sieh (sher/her/s), The Carpentries 

     Zachary Painter, Princeton University

    Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech

    Angela Li (she/her), Princeton University

    Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries

    Maneesha Sane (any pronouns), The Carpentries 

    Kari Jordan (she/her), The Carpentries


Apologies

    Angelique Trusler


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name, pronouns, affiliation, location, favorite section to teach as a Trainer

    Nominations for favorite section to teach:

    Memory and Cognitive Load

    Expertise and Instruction +1

    Motivation and Demotivation

    More Practice Live Coding +2

    [Bad teaching video]

    How we Operate

    Pre/post discussion

     Zachary Painter (with Annajiat Rasel): August 05-09

    Teaching online for the first time in a while. Any recent changes to approach when teaching onlined? Any sections that have changed significantly and could require updating Trainers' mental models.

    Sher: taught with Jordan recently. Four half days. We adjusted breaks quite a lot. One 15 min break was not enough. Got feedback on that after first half day. Also needed to put in time for following up/recapping the previous day. 

    Nathaniel: I feel like it’s gotten harder in the last year to get the less talkative half of the group to engage. Yes on breaks (and needing to really encourage people every time to get up and move, not just check email or whatever).

    Jordan: less talkative trainees: a consistent challenge. In the past have tried to have people choose which portion of the day they will have camera on and commit to that, to help with Zoom fatigue/getting some more visual feedback., set expectations but allow for some break from having themselves on camera. Can help to have some slides prepared for the more content-/concept-heavy sections. 

    Nathaniel: Yes on breaks (and needing to really encourage people every time to get up and move, not just check email or whatever). It used to be I leaned on exercises in the etherpad more to save time, but when I taught in June it was more like using the etherpad to encourage everyone contributes (and maybe have them put names on sometimes so you can call on the less talkative when they share interesting examples in the pad)

    Nathaniel: checkout instructions and Getting started on checkout (https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/14-checkout.html) changed a lot.

    Angela: +1

    Angela: we played music on Zoom to welcome people, prompt themto come back when breaks are over. Playing relaxing music e.g. jazz helps reduce awkwardness when folks have arrived and are waiting to start.

    Jordan: Watch out for length of sections between breaks. They are not necessarily even.

    Angela: Oh also double check your co instructor remembers how to do Zoom breakouts for virtual — it had been a while before I had done that so took me a moment to remember at the beginning

    Nathaniel: And that you both have host or co-host privileges set up every day

     Maneesha Sane (filling in for a bit next week) 

    Will not be at the whole training. Know I will be teaching the EIA section. Curious to hear tips, insights, advice from anyone who taught that recently.

    Nathaniel: stereotypes section is still hard: shift in tone, and feels awkward to fit in. People like the Equity & Accessibility parts but still have some friction with stereotypes.

    Jordan: partial attendance may present an extra challenge, as can benefit from an established rapport with trainees. In the past I have set expectation the day before that the section is coming up, have provided an anonymous form that people can use to submit questions, concerns. Helps them get what they want out of the section, without necessarily having to speak up during the section itself.

    Sher: I have slides to provide visuals for Equality/Equity and Inclusion. A quote that describes difference between equity and inclusion. H/T Kari

    Angela: helps if you can bring in personal experience. (note from Angela: only if you are comfortable sharing - this is up to you as an instructor and what boundaries you want to set around your own stories. You do not need to have to share an example of exclusion from your own life to teach this section effectively!)  Link it back to expert awareness gap. Re: stereotypes, I like to frame it as advice not to make assumptions about people. Also connect it to motivation/demotivation. Linking up with other parts of training helps people understand why it is important.

    Announcements

    Workshops and Instruction Training Team has added additional sessions to the community Calendar for Creating a Workshop Website. Encourage Trainees to attend if they need additional support

    DC R Ecology Lesson update has happened: https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/07/dc-r-ecology-lesson-redesign-released/

    review https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons.html#dc-ecology for updated guidance to trainees on recommended/eligible episodes for teaching demos

    added a note next to signup info and emailed trainees who had already signed up for a teaching demo with intention to teach an episode from the previous version of the lesson. Those signups went up to mid-August, so until then trainees are permitted to use episodes from previous or new version of the lesson. (A copy of the preious version of the lesson is being hosted at: https://tobyhodges.github.io/R-ecology-lesson-previous/)

    Encourage Instructors to attend the Instructor Monthly Meetings. Receive updates as an Instructor and topics that are relevant to all teaching aspects of the workshops 

    Trainer Renewal will be upcoming. Look out for more details

    2024 Q4 Training scheduling will happen in August  

    Instructor Trainer Leadership Update: 

    Topic of the month

    What sections of the curriculum do you skip when running out of time?

    Sher: common that we need to skip content to keep to time. important to consider that some sections are essential to cover.

    Jordan: first half of curriculum is all really important, but I am usually much more willing to cut in the second half for time. Part of the reason for that is that often I hope I can point to the way that the Trainer team has operated during the training, "As you have hopefully noticed, we..." (parts I usually cut from are: preparing to teach, working with your team, lauches and landings, how we operate)

    Zach: with apologies to The Carpentries admins in the room, I tend to gloss over or cut out parts of Launches and Landings, How We Operate sections. My Spiritual Directors says that when he teaches adults he focuses more on conceptual aspects, relies on folks to pick up some of the practical aspects as they go along. I don't want to totally skip what it means to set up a good workshop, etc, but prefer to spend time on conceptual elements, pedagogical aspects. Hope they can pick up the operational stuff later through osmosis or in follow-up with documentation.

    Angela: I almost always cut Preparing to Teach, tell trainees to review that section closer to when they teach. Usually also go through content about the organisation of The Carpentries quite quickly too, as only a subset of trainees who are typically more interested. Not sure if there is a pipeline for people to enter if they are interested in getting more involved, and maybe that is the intention of that section.

    Kari: where else could we provide that orientation for newcomers? We have explored different options, including the Welcome Sessions.

    Sher: A lot of content from How We Operate is also in Welcome Sessions. Looking to revamp that and look at what could be taken out of IT curriculum now that Welcome Sessions are compulsory part of checkout. Recognise that some folks do not come with intention to check out, but we still need to tell them that stuff so they are aware of where the events are coming from. 

    Kari: the Board is having similar conversation as it really speaks to our model. If trainees are more interested in local capacity building, that has implications for our revenue and we would need to revisit our model.

    Jordan: One reason I like to cut content from that section is that the history of The Carpentries is not necessarily as relevant to trainees as the details of how things are being done now. I also try to cut out more procedural but less related to how trainees might see themselves fitting into the organisation.

    Annajiat: +1

    Angela: Really helpful to hear the Core Team motivation for How we Operate - might be useful to communicate that to Trainers more explicitly (ie telling us how this section fits into Core Team goals), this is one of the first time I’ve dug into that

    Sher: Welcome sessions were introduced to try to bridge that gap. Important to have this conversation with Trainers to raise awareness, and to gather feedback.

    Jordan: another thought: it might be helpful to flip order of checkout and get involved

    Toby: Open an issue on the repository so the Trainers have a chnace to share their view. The plan for releasing new handbook content that is arranged more clearly around the roles ppl can have in teh community. This pipeline should exist so ppl can know how to get involved. 

    Maneesha: revamping handbook and website for accessibility and easily involved and a consistent way. All the resources will be in a more clear, consistent place 



# Trainer Meeting, 18 July 2024, UTC 23:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20240718T23&p1=1440

Training discussion (pre and post):




Others attending:   

     Danielle Sieh (she/her/s), The Carpentries

     Paula Pappalardo (she/her/s), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

    Jeff Oliver (he/him/his), University of Arizona


Apologies

    Jon Wheeler


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Name, pronouns, affiliation, location, favorite section to teach as a Trainer

    Pre/post discussion

     

     

     

    Announcements

    Workshops and Instruction Training Team has added additional sessions to the community Calendar for Creating a Workshop Website. Encourage Trainees to attend if they need additional support.

    Encourage Instructors to attend the Instructor Monthly Meetings. Receive updates as an Instructor and topics that are relevant to all teaching aspects of the workshops 

    Trainer Renewal will be upcoming. Look out for more details

    Instructor Trainer Leadership Update: 

    2024 Q4 Training scheduling will happen in August  - continuing with the same method as Q3 scheduling of offering specific dates

    Comments

    could commit to more if it was broken up more - if it was possible to do multiple sets of half days in a quarter. For example - for a four day training, being able to do two days out of the four

    One concern with scheduling this way is the ability to build repoir with the trainees

    Another place it may have an affect is for trainer renewal. Would trainers be renewed by the number of trainings particpated in?

    Another suggestion is allowing for the ability to checkmark if you cannot be there for the entire four days. 

    DC R Ecology Lesson update has happened: https://carpentries.org/blog/2024/07/dc-r-ecology-lesson-redesign-released/

    review https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons.html#dc-ecology for updated guidance to trainees on recommended/eligible episodes for teaching demos

    added a note next to signup info and emailed trainees who had already signed up for a teaching demo with intention to teach an episode from the previous version of the lesson. Those signups went up to mid-August, so until then trainees are permitted to use episodes from previous or new version of the lesson. (A copy of the preious version of the lesson is being hosted at: https://tobyhodges.github.io/R-ecology-lesson-previous/)

    Topic of the month

    What sections of the curriculum do you skip when running out of time? 

    Background: When trainees miss parts of the training, they schedule time to meet with Sher! When meeting it's hard to know what the trainee has learned or not learned because things often are skipped. Considering having a designated list for if a section needs to be skipped, what it should be. 

    Are revamping the Welcome Session to cover things that are commonly skipped

    Website preparation is the main one

    There are smaller things too, if there are things that the Instructor training curriculum has a lot of information, might dial back on the details to afford for more conversation. Very ad-hock, so difficult to make recommendations on exactly where that would be

    Try to move away from talking at the trainees and more into the active parts. People love breakout rooms. 

    It would be great if there was more formative assessment in the first 4-hour block



