# Trainer meeting, October 15  UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201015T14 


***Attending***   
- Annika Rockenberger (she/her), Oslo/Norway, arockenberger@gmail.com, @ARockenberger
- Toby Hodges (he/him) / The Carpentries / tobyhodges@carpentries.org / tw: @tbyhdgs gh: @tobyhodges
- Angelqiue van Rensburg (she/her), The Carpentries/ angelique@carpentries.org/ @angvanrensburg
- Maneesha Sane / The Carpentries / maneesha@carpentries.org 
- Carrie Brown (she/her) / carrie.brown@unl.edu / @cathrine98 (twitter)
- François Michonneau (he/him) / The Carpentries / francois@carpentries.org / @fmic_ (twitter), @fmichonneau (gh)  
- Amanda Charbonneau (she/her), achar@ucdavis.edu, @procrastinomics
- Kelly Barnes (She/her)
- Anne Fouilloux, annefou@geo.uio.no / @Anne Fouilloux  (arrived a bit late...)
- Caroline F Ajilogba/(she/her) /carolfadeke@gmail.com
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- David Perez-Suarez / he/him / d.perez-suarez@ucl.ac.uk (arrived almost at the end, well only 30 minutes late)

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Questions about status updates
- The profiles are all very nice and diverse and reflect the different ways one can contribute to the Carpentries as a trainer.
- However, I think they lack an aspect of human life that is central but gets overlooked too often: people are/get sick, some chronically, or other normal life-stuff happens: pregnancy, maternity/paternity leaves, family members and loved ones needing care, people moving places/countries, new jobs, etc.
- If the Carpentries really wants to embrace inclusion and diversity, THIS is also a big part of it: accomodating peoples normal lives with all their ups and downs and shifts of focus.
- Can we formalise this somehow? What about 'Dimitar' (a trainer profile I created for this purpose) who is chronically ill and sometimes has to refrain from teaching/participating in meetings due to his health, but otherwise contributes to the extent of his capacity and is engaged in the community. He will not be able to commit to 48hrs with good conscious. Do we not want him as a trainer then? will he always have to negotiate for fewer hours or other special arrangements and will it make him feel inadequate and a burden to others and eventually lead him to leave the community?
- I see why it is necessary to have a trainer agreement which somehow quantifies contributions to have an overview, etc. But, the individual human comes first, the bureaucracy comes second.
- Continuing discussion: Demos, lessons, & guidelines
- Kelly: What. isthe purpose of demos? See people's teaching ability? Or give them an opportunity to prepare a whole lesson to teach.
- Karen: all of the above?
- Toby: How often does someone not have prepared an episode vs a lesson? How common is it that there is too little to choose from?
- Annika: more an issue of the data carpentry lessons vs software carpentry. Ample to choose from when people sign up for swc. Data Carpentry for Social Sciences -- lots of talking, people tend to try to do the lecture style slash powerpoint with these parts. You can do that but that isn't what we want to see. In these lessons there may be too little to choose from.
- Anne: Sometimes in a demo if you have 5 people with thes ame lesson or topic, e.g. bash, you might give a portion that isn't really something we teach because we don't have time. It feels a bit unfair because it's a bit more difficult for some of them. You will assess their ability to teach a part that really won't be touched in a Carpentry workshop. 
- David: Many people coming with the same lesson -- could we either suggest that they choose different lessons and flag that as someone trying something they are less confident in. If everyone is doing the same lesson there is less valuable feedback. Maybe we can create a way to suggest without putting too much load on them.
- Toby: re mid episode start points. Some of the DC lessons have long episodes. IN thiose cases starting in the middle might be fine. Can also ask people to pick up where the first person left off if they are doing the same lesson.
- Annika: that's a good idea, imitates real life as you may have to take over on the fly from where someone has left their teaching. This is at least not creating a situation you will never encounter. Seeing how someone handles that can be instructive, especially for long episodes as in Data Carpentry. 
- Karen; If we're going to start in the middlem, do we need to vet all the episodes again to be sure there are not any traps in the middle?
- Margareth: there is a risk of creating an elitist bias. Do we want people to get through when they have prepared only the easiest part? e.g. visualization. Nobody really likes this onem, but this this the most important part for the scientists. On the other size I see people who are more researchers and they don't come in as a Trainer because they don't have time Maybe they will do it for their students, to help them progress with their work with data. Do we keep it like it is right now, not too challenging, but the slection will be done anyway -- who is doing courses?  How many people have never checked out? What should the Carpentries be, who are the Trainers, are they elite, with a special. If we are too elite we lose a lot of talent. (David: does trainers in this point mean instructors or instructors trainers? I believe is about 1st stage, instructors, but I may be wrong as it fits on both scenarios).


# Trainer Meeting October 15 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201015T22

***Attending***   
- Murray Cadzow (he/him) murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), jcoliver@arizona.edu, @jcoliverAZ
- Liz Stokes (she, they) liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au @ragamouf
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), sarah.stevens@wisc.edu, @microStevens
- Kelly Barnes (she/her)
- Ariel Deardorff (she/her), ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu 
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Sarah Brown
- Tim Dennis (he/him), timdennis@ucla.edu
- Mark Crowe (he/him), mark.crowe@qcif.edu.au
- Darya Vnaichkina (she/her) d.vanichkina@gmail.com

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Questions about status updates
- Came in email, you need to respond to the form linked in the email to let the Carpentries know you want to be active
- You can also request that your other activities count toward the trainer agreement in the form
- Email titled - The Carpentreis Trainer Status Renewal
- Form - https://forms.gle/k79CL3RzUk4hteMX7
- If you are trainer and didn't get this email, let Karen know
- The profiles are all very nice and diverse and reflect the different ways one can contribute to the Carpentries as a trainer.
- However, I think they lack an aspect of human life that is central but gets overlooked too often: people are/get sick, some chronically, or other normal life-stuff happens: pregnancy, maternity/paternity leaves, family members and loved ones needing care, people moving places/countries, new jobs, etc.
- If the Carpentries really wants to embrace inclusion and diversity, THIS is also a big part of it: accomodating peoples normal lives with all their ups and downs and shifts of focus.
- Can we formalise this somehow? What about 'Dimitar' (a trainer profile I created for this purpose) who is chronically ill and sometimes has to refrain from teaching/participating in meetings due to his health, but otherwise contributes to the extent of his capacity and is engaged in the community. He will not be able to commit to 48hrs with good conscious. Do we not want him as a trainer then? will he always have to negotiate for fewer hours or other special arrangements and will it make him feel inadequate and a burden to others and eventually lead him to leave the community?
- I see why it is necessary to have a trainer agreement which somehow quantifies contributions to have an overview, etc. But, the individual human comes first, the bureaucracy comes second.
- Continuing discussion: Demos, lessons, & guidelines
- Sarah S People in community discussions are often relieved when told that they will only have to start at the beginning of an episode.
- Murray Is the whole idea of starting at a random place a good idea to start with? Can we just give them 3 places we'll choose from? It's not like a random place is going to give us a sense of whether they can teach anywhere else in the lesson. When they do the same thing they only get better.
- Mark: Concern about starting in the middle is setting up dependencies. 
- Sarah Brown: The idea was to expand the number of listed prepared starting points. Wouldn't be random, would be building up the table to include more things than the beginnings of certain episodes. Because certain lessons only have one starting point. Especially aibrary carpentry. Some of those are super easy and welcoming lessons to start with. Maybe some of those episodes should be split anyway. But we could build up the table to offer more starting points. Also whole lessons that we basically can't use because there are no good starting points at the beginning of episodes. Also consider providing files for starting points to help get peopel to be able to start at other points. 
- Brian: Tension is do we offer more lessons or not. If we start at the start of the lessons then they don't do live coding. Maybe we have. ourstandard SWC DC and 1-2 LC lessons. There are arguments for doing this. But there are also arguments for anything goes, and now it takes time to tease apart yes and no and maybe. Also it is not equitable when people only have to prepare one episode to teach. Can be strategic and choose that lesson.
- https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1156 is the issue discussion
- Liz: In the spirit of expanding options for teaching demos, support this idea in increasing options if you have a demo where everyone wants to do the same lesson. You have an opportunity to take an episode through, but not necessarily at the expense of stopping people from starting at the beginning of an episode if there are options available
- Sarah S: The equity problem is also that some lessons are really twice as long. Maybe we shouldn't be asking them to prepare the whole lesson. We need to see teaching and skill and have an opportunity for feedback. People are excited about the feedback.
- Tim: with more librarians coming through we do need more authentic lessons available. Two have been moved to stable, so need to get PRs in. spreadsheets and sql. I pick where they start within an episode,to help them avoid the preamble. They prepare and are going to be nervous, it seems fine
- Murray: Teaching demo doesn't even reflect how people teach now. With increasing pool of instructors, people generally decide which bits of a lesson they are going to teach when they teach wa wofkshop. They decide in advance. Getting people to work from the entire curriculum doesn't reflect the reality of the situation. Maybe there's a historical thing when people could be called upon to teach anything. I start at the beginning but do skip the preamble as well to get to live coding
- Brian: one reason why I emphasize teaching demos is it's really god spaced reptition. Graually iterating on instructor training. Get more comfortable with it. Having people who are going to be lead instructors prepping an entire lesson it really is useful to have someone who can step in to teach anything. Things can happen. Really beneficial to building confidence and getting them to prepare.
- Sarah B: Preparing the whole thing is also helpful because some trainees feel like they're supposed to memorize, and this helps people realize it's not about memorizing but really more like the teaching dexperience. Some folks get lucky and get a piece they've prepared, some have to get transition bits. +1!Having a mental model of the whole lesson comes through in those transitions.
- Murray: I think a very important consideration is the time we're expecting people to take to prep for a demo rather than the prep they would need to do for an actual workshop and how much of that should be "front loaded" as prep for the demo.+1
