# Trainer meeting, January 16, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200116T14

Training discussion (pre and post):

***Others attending***
- Laura Acion, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina
- Aleks Nenadic, Software Sustanability Institute, Uni of Manchester, UK
- François Michonneau, The Carpentries
- Christina Koch, UW Madison
- Sarah Stevens, UW Madison (sorry I'm late!)
- Pao Corrales, University of Buenos Aires, Argentina
- Anelda van der Walt, Talarify, South Africa
- Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries
- Karen Word, The Carpentries

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- Staff changes! Karen is now full time as Director of Instructor Training. Also hiring a new Deputy Director of Instructor Training! Stay tuned for blog post with more details soon.
- Deputy Director of instructor training - will be looking for someone with an education / assessment background so we can do more with assessing what we do.
- Additional online trainings requested in Aus/NZ, North American Central & Eastern time zones.
- For more details: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/T8b173b0ba32761e4/carpentries-online-instructor-training-march-april-2020
- Enter availability here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfWRCDunqpWiITzB57Pu9HHDUydPGeOJhRpW9xkWnCUuISyaQ/viewform
- Please add demo slots on Calendly if you haven't previously included the January-March time period in your signups: https://calendly.com/carpentries-trainers-signup/checkout-demos
- New Trainers will begin training soon! If you are hosting an upcoming event or demo, new trainees may wish to attend all or part of your workshop. They can observe or you are welcome to invite them to participate.
- Feel free to email the trainer list / message in the trainer slack when you have an upcoming trainer so other people know.
- Topic of the month 'open mic' for updates, ideas, and questions. Some examples:
- Do you participate in another Carpentries community? Tell us what's happening! We'd love to hear updates from local communities, too.
- This is a great time to bring up any little ideas or questions you've had kicking around, maybe those not quite big enough for a full meeting theme.
- Consider any older ideas that you'd like to give a 'bump' to for 2020.
- FAQ that we don't have great answers to, areas where we need more documentation (like, how do I get involved with The Carpentries beyond Instructor Training?)
- Whatever you'd like to share!
- Aleks: If you would like to send someone to instructor training - how to prioritize them (in say, open application)?
- Apply for open application, have them (or you) email Karen
- Can have one (but *only one!) person join open training even if they have an institutional membership
- Francois: Teaching demonstration question - when starting in a random place, people want to give some context before they start. It's a natural feeling, but it eats up time in the demonstration.
- Christina: Is this happening w/ particular lesson? F: happened with three lessons
- Christina: In intro, say that you can assume that the audience has seen the previous part of the lesson, and that it will feel a bit weird to just start at the beginning.
- Also, lesson choice: some lessons are more modular than others
- Karen: Often people give a little intro, and that's nice.
- Sarah: make it clear that they are giving a demo, not actually teaching people in the room
- Sarah: Gives her own feedback and doesn't require everyone to give feedback - what do other people do? Should everyone give feedback?
- Kari: Do what you're comfortable with. Has everyone write down feedback, pick one person to share (rotate around), have person who did the demo give their feelings, then maybe a tip/last comment from you.
- Karen: Demo is mostly about teaching, but also about process of giving feedback. Typing in the etherpad helps deal with the issue of time. Can learn about new instructors by the feedback they give.
- Kari: How is the demo signup going? Planning to use it for pre/post workshop discussions and want comments.
- Laura: from an end-user perpsective, works great! Love the change.
- Christina/Sarah: works well, but needs reminders (and documentation)
- Karen: reminder email coming out this week!
- Sher!: How do we make sure that we can accommodate certain times / people just running their own sessions.
- Karen: need to use calendly, mainly to reserve the room. For now, tries to check etherpad occasionally for sessions that weren't registered via calendar.
- Follow-up Question: How do you cancel a demo if you have a conflict?
- Should be instructions in a reminder email, received a week before the demo.
- 1st step: try to find someone to fill in (use email, slack)
- If not able to cancel, contact people on etherpad and let them know.
- Laura: this year, restarting the Spanish translations (slack channel, #carpentries_es has some new life)!
- Christina: Carpentry Con is coming! June 2020. Lots of ways to get involved: propose a session, design a t-shirt, apply for financial aid, direct sponsors our way, register, etc. https://2020.carpentrycon.org/
- Christina: Any updates on lesson infrastructure?
- Francois: mainly waiting for hiring of new lesson infrastructure developer. Currently reviewing applications.
- Karen: what are these people going to be doing?
- Francois: Want to make it easier to contribute lessons to Carpentries incubator and develop review process for Carpentries Lab; in this process, make it easier for maintainers of current lessons to keep up their current lessons!
- Aleks: As part of Carpentry Con proposal, wanted to develop a lesson; also has short-course training materials for intermediate topics that could be contributed --> hoping to do in Carpentries lesson style and contribute to incubator. [https://cdh.carpentries.org/]
- Laura: the handbook has a lot of useful information! (link?)
- Anelda: Collaborated on a grant for funding last year, R mapping project to develop tools to map public health (and other) data for Africa. May also be developing training materials and possibly use the Carpentries. R will be used - afrimapr. Lead PI is Andy South from LSTM. Funded through Wellcome Open Research Fund.

Next meeting: Feb 6.

# Trainer Meeting January 16, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200116T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Eric Jankowski - Boise State - ericjankowski@boisestate.edu
- Paula Andrea Martinez - debrief

***Others attending***
- Murray Cadzow - University of Otago
- Karen Word - The Carpentries
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton - Macquarie University
- Chris PU NJoku  University of Nigeria (I'm sorry for  being late. We don't have power. MY PC battery will soon sign off. (Hi Chris!)
- Masami Yamaguchi - Griffith University

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- 2 trainings coming up 1 with Karen Cranston, she's travling through sunday. Need to set up infrastructure. Confident about going into Training #3 or 4, Karen's super experienced, also feb 11-12 Software Carpentry workshop then Feb 19-20 online instructor Training with John Simpson. Mostly looking forward to having two in quick succession, hasn't been too big a lag between any online trainings, so not too rusty. A little different with the workshops now, it's different to get back into those! Will be good to have that in the interim. The only question around all this is checking with Elizabeth to be sure Boise State is fulfilled for platinum membership. Would be good to have verbal confirmation. There will be trainees at Boise State at the workshop for whom it will be their first workshop but probably not from that next training.
- Groundswell of interest across the state of Idaho, newish folks up there that have begun checkout, at least one new person at Idaho State, pretty far distance apart 3-7 hrs, coalescing around collaborative computing center bonded by state legislature. Excitement around using Carpentries to help use that computing center. Big workshop out in Idaho Falls in june, trying to see where it makes sense to put effort.  200 students?
- Brian: research bazaar has a fairly decent amount of literature. Actually did 200 last time around. Ping Darya and Brian on Slack if you want to put on a Research Bazaar in Idaho. Both of us coordinate the one in Sydney, Matthias does the one in Perth. Melbourne does its own one. Murray does one in Dunedin. Takes about 2 orders more magnitude of organization than a typical workshop. Paula has done Brisbane.
- November online training with Eric. Two Trainers but one had to cancel at the last minute so Eric and Paula stepped in as well as Sher and Erin for  few hours each. Managed to prepare with enough time within a week but there were some things that would be good to know  -- didn't know that some of the trainees were from her own institution. Could have probably negotiated a bit more time if had known there were so many people from home. It may be hard to get this info, but we tend to know who people are in this community. Wonder how it is for the participants, didn't receive feedback because not a lead, did email Sher but haven't heard back.
- Eric also wants to see that feedback too! Certainly was challenging to jump between so many different presentation styles and chunks of the schedule. There for just mornings of both days. 1-2 hours. No idea how it went. Would habe been useful to debrief afterwards. Now 3 months on trying to remember back. but oVerall went well. Also about the timing, organized centrally and times were wrong, lots of people got the wrong time. Put a time zone that changes for some parts and not others, everyone was confused including Paula. If there was someone here, they would know the time zones and community members.
- Brian this is why I pushed really hard to get Matthias appointed as a regional Instructor Training coordinator (title unknown) been pushing to know what demand is for next year so we don't have pileup. In this hemisphere please make sure your institutions are in contact with him. Important so he can represent Australia up and deal with fires before they get out of hand. 4 Australians in new trainee cohort. Someone make sure he finishes the blog post on the dinner last year -- make sure we have an instructor training community that's really good.
- Megan Guidry and Matthias (regional coordinators) could come to meetings as well. I second this motion.
- Everyone in NZ who goes through IT goes through RC. It does take a lot of effort.

### Announcements
- Staff changes! Karen is now full time as Director of Instructor Training. Also hiring a new Deputy Director! Stay tuned for blog post with more details soon.
- Much applause has been had.
- 3yr grant-funded expansion.
- Additional online trainings requested in Aus/NZ, North American Central & Eastern time zones.
- For more details: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/T8b173b0ba32761e4/carpentries-online-instructor-training-march-april-2020
- Enter availability here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfWRCDunqpWiITzB57Pu9HHDUydPGeOJhRpW9xkWnCUuISyaQ/viewform
- Please add demo slots on Calendly if you haven't previously included the January-March time period in your signups: https://calendly.com/carpentries-trainers-signup/checkout-demos
- New Trainers will begin training soon! If you are hosting an upcoming event or demo, new trainees may wish to attend all or part of your workshop. They can observe or you are welcome to invite them to participate.
- Next trainer-training starts next week!
- New exec council! Paula has been elected as community member. Representing AUNZ/Southern Hemisphere. Role: hear from community and take back to the council.
***Topic of the month***
- Open Mic!
- Murray Otago has a CarpentryConnect coming up in February mostly NZ but also some Australian community. Ties into broader e-research community and e-research conference is directly after CarpentryConnect. Coming back from holidays at the moment, locally beginning to plan the year of workshops and related trainings. Quite a few things on the calendar so far. Part of the event is to get a national calendar of events for other institutions to know what's going on. ONe brief question: as part of CarpentryConnect, it's being requested whether that can count for Discussion? Yes!
- Eric Boise state in Idaho. Lots of Carpentries-related and specific things in Idaho, which is kind of tiny interms of population 1.5 million people but 3 state funded universities across large geographic area. Lots of folks have gone through INstructor Training, statewide momentum around training computational literacies in higher ed and k12. Carpentries lens toward pedagogy fills a really urgent niche in discussions across the state. I think we're going to find opportunities and challenges in coordinating people across the state and not be duplicative while scaling best practices responsibly, not spreading anyone too thin. Eager to learn from ResBaz and other international efforts to learn how these are done
- Paula has been with the carpentries for a few years. Last year completely volunteer not a part of tole. Trying to negotiate a new role that includes a bit of Carpentries. If you have a task in your job description that I could borrow to put in my job description to negotiate with my employer would really appreciate. Executive council will take a lot of effort. Employer is a national imaging facility, but closely related with QCIF, which is a partner organization. Trying to maintain official lessons and those in the incubator.
- Masami librarian at Griffith University in Brisbane. Last year became a trainer, had a chance to deliver 2 instructor trainings, latest was last December, sorry to have missed debrief. Met Brian and Paula and Darya. During session Darya invited candidates to ResBaz took out business card to share. Griffith has Amanda Miotto champion for workshops in Brisbane already organized 8 workshops in R, python through the year. Question: Found a tweet about Japanese translations for R. Within Carpentries or byeond? Paula: group of Carpentries volunteers. Not paid so up to them how much they will do. Can put you in contact with the leader. Would love to be in touch. Person sitting behind Murray
- Brian scheduled a second teaching demo because long wait list, frontloading because lots of demand right now in that time. Two weeks unwisely doing not-a-workshop for trying to get maintainer lesson off the ground over Australia Day so Brian plus 7 students. No co-instructor, oops. Happily not a big crowd, not a formal workshop, more experimental than anything. Need to lock down instructor training. ALso hope to pilot an 8 week training, need to demonstrate that it's effective as we both want it to be (with Darya). Because not teaching this year, putting time that would have been teaching into the Carpentries. Should be a little more available so long as can justify Macquarie benefit. ANd ResBasz
- Chris Nigeria. No local community as of now. Joined in 2018. Recently made a proposal to national technology agency so they can sponsor a national research computing planning for our higher education. MY aim is if they accept to sponsor the training we are likely to involve Carpentries trainers and that could mean a formidable local community in Nigeria. Hoe
- Etherpad problems. Advisory: double check the etherpad especially for teaching demos. Ping out earlier than you might otherwise to be sure they haven't been stuck by it. Something has gone sideways just this week. Have backup plan in mind. See if Etherpad exporter still works, also.
- Another update Research Data Alliance Webinar. CODATA/RDA program including 2 days of Carpentries workshops. Been teaching and have been replicated -- https://www.rd-alliance.org/curriculum-foundational-research-data-science-skills-early-career-researchers-1
- ANyone else going to CarpentryCon? Eric trying very hard
- Would be good to record a Carpentries workshop. Last ones recorded were maybe 5 years ago. 
