# Trainer meeting, May 7, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200507T14

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Christina Koch (and Sarah Stevens ;-)https://uw-madison-datascience.github.io/2020-04-22-ttt-uwmadison/
- Anne Fouilloux https://nwu-eresearch.github.io/2020-04-22-ttt-online-CEST/
- Maneesha Sane https://maneesha.github.io/2020-04-14-ttt-online-EDT/
- Alex Konovalov https://alex-konovalov.github.io/2020-04-30-ttt-online-BST/
- Mike Trizna https://smithsonianworkshops.github.io/2020-04-27-ttt-smithsonian/

****Others attending****
- Kari L. Jordan
- Annika Rockenberger
- Sarah Stevens
- Toby Hodges
- Mike Trizna
- Kelly Barnes
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Sarah Brown
- Alexander Konovalov
- Lex Nederbragt
- François Michonneau
- Aleks Nenadic
- Jason Williams
- Elizabeth Williams

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- A-la-carte training requests are presently on hold. Trainer availability is unusually low, and we are uncertain that we will be able to meet the demand for member training. Member training demand may also be reduced, so we are working to evaluate capacity and regional variation. Please see this GitHub issue for comment on a-la-carte training: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37
- Running a local Instructor training online? Consider opening additional seats to other members and Open trainees. This will help tremendously and may be key in allowing a-la-carte/scholarship events to proceed.
- Updates to Zoom documentation in Handbook https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/zoom_rooms.html
- Topic of the month: Discourse! A needed forum, or just Yet Another Tool?
- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TbFjfK1lw1KC9buEyBmrn83G6zOB0B5dD3iXO-uvg2o/edit?usp=sharing

### Notes

### Pre and post workshop discussion
- See links to respective workshops above
- General: all recent workshops affected by Corona situation
- Anne: Fouillux post-workshop: did a two-day recently. Worried about people being busy so was flexible in terms of time away. Folks did homework, maybe more so than other times.
- Maneesha Sane: post-workshop: also was flexible when people needed to step out. Challenge: to keep track of who missed what part and how to follow up.
- Alexander Konovalov: post-workshop, https://alex-konovalov.github.io/2020-04-30-ttt-online-BST/ nine trainees one from New Zealand (!); major feedback was wish for four half-days. Also, Etherpad issues; had to use an alternative (framapad) and copy-paste content back to Carpentries Etherpad
- Mike Trizna: internal training, moving dates around meant ended up with 6 trainees; nice to have such a small group
- Christina Koch&Sarah Stevens: local/regional; small enough everyone could talk, but not so small folks felt pressured to talk; did noon-noon and noon-noon instead of 9-5; liked the spread but still concentrated; observing the other instructor made one reflect on ones own teaching; did wrap-up question at end to achieve 'closing': "what is one thing that you take away and would share with others"; kept track of who talked, achieved a nice spread; Q: concerns from trainees about online training? Not at the training but at lots of questions checkout discussions (is closer to new instructors doing their first teaching); Q: other feedback beyond wrap-up? Sticky notes, not one-up/down
- We discussed more issues around new instructors and online-teaching worries. Part of instructor training is teaching to each other online, so they get some practice.
- Q: new concerns about checkouts? Mostly in how to get an extension
- Don't forget The Carpentries have done online training for years and the trainer community is a great resource for others switching to it.

### Announcements
- A-la-carte trainings, those outside of membership, are currently on hold due to challenges to meet demands for regular (membership) trainings. See github issue https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37
- If you are running online training and have seats available please consider opening them up to others waiting for traniing
- Q (mike): How would we go about opening a local instructor training to other members? A (Karen): Get in touch with any of us — I think Sher is most direct but even emailing team@carpentries.org will get us connected
- Zoom documentation is being updated. Q Zoom bombing? Unique ID assigned to meeting but anyone can join; advised to claim host and set up waiting room in advance; can also keep meeting link/ID hidden except for attendees - harder for recurring meetings; waiting room: only host can communicate to waitees, but not other way around (yet?); ask waitees to change name? Can set up message waitees see when entering waiting room, for example 'change name to something we should recognise from your signup'.

### Topic of the month: Discourse!
- https://forum.carpentries.org/
- Karen Word suggests Discourse as a home for our trainers discussions
- Need a place for conversations, distill ideas and organise them
- How to arrive at decisions around issues, involving as many trainers as possible?
- Would enable asynchronous conversation inbetween online trainer meetings
- Current channels (Etherpad minutes, TopicBox) function poorly as memory
- Example: past discussion on when should people redo teaching demo (e.g., fail them)
- Reposted the question on Discourse and recieved answers really quickly
- There is a closed section for trainers only on Discourse (a 'wall' may enable mor honest conversations)
- Some of today's topics could become topics there
- Discussed alternatives such as GitHub issues
- https://forum.carpentries.org/c/trainers-group/6 (I think)
- Other thoughts?
- Still need a way to arrive at decisions and generate permanent record
- Need to be aware of communication with community
- Time will tell whether Discourse works - conversations could dry up in a couple of months and we should probably accept that
- if it does take off, I think we will *eventually* need guidance on what discussion is appropriate for Slack vs what is appropriate for Discourse. Or we need people dedicated to ensuring all the useful conversations end up copied to both places. Same (to some extent) for TopicBox...
- From the chat: It could be really helpful to have new threads begin on discourse from copy/pasting subsections of the etherpad notes after one of these meetings 
- Important to control notifications, Discourse seems to have a lot of options
- There will be a Discourse about Discourse on the forum :-)

****Topics from this meeting for future discussion (on discourse? ;))****
- Online issues: how to keep track of people when they disappear? do we do any follow-up?
- What do people do to wrap up training?
- Zoom privacy + practices
- How to better use asychnronous / low-bandwidth options
- Hypothesis?
- Discourse?
- https://www.iddblog.org/videoconferencing-alternatives-how-low-bandwidth-teaching-will-save-us-all/



# Trainer Meeting May 7, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200507T22

****Training discussion (pre and post):****
- Angela Li,  https://angela-li.github.io/2020-04-23-ttt-online-CDT/
- Evgenij Belikov, https://alex-konovalov.github.io/2020-04-30-ttt-online-BST/

****Others attending****
- Murray Cadzow
- Darya Vanichkina
- Kelly Barnes
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Ariel Deardorff
- Liz Stokes
- Tim Dennis
- Matthias Liffers
- Masami
- Samar Elsheikh

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- A-la-carte training requests are presently on hold. Trainer availability is unusually low, and we are uncertain that we will be able to meet the demand for member training. Member training demand may also be reduced, so we are working to evaluate capacity and regional variation. Please see this GitHub issue for comment on a-la-carte training: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37
- Running a local Instructor training online? Consider opening additional seats to other members and Open trainees. This will help tremendously and may be key in allowing a-la-carte/scholarship events to proceed.
- Updates to Zoom documentation in Handbook https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/zoom_rooms.html
- Topic of the month: Discourse! A needed forum, or just Yet Another Tool?
- https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TbFjfK1lw1KC9buEyBmrn83G6zOB0B5dD3iXO-uvg2o/edit?usp=sharing

### Notes
- Training Discussions
- Angela
- Two weeks ago. Teaching with Erin
- Went well. Angela did first half of both days
- Managed to make all the time points
- Rushed breakout groups
- Low vision trainer
- Problem with memory exercise
- In future will read memory exercise out loud
- Will teach again in June
- Timing discussion (Karen)
- Karen cuts judiciously
- Co-trainer cut website section entirely
- Post-training modules offer opportunity to relax schedule
- Discussion more natural, then pulling out key points for emphasis
- Evgenij
- Also paired with an experienced instructor
- First online teaching situation
- Managed to dodge live-coding. Was presenting with a single screen.
- Timing was small issue
- Second half first day. First half second day
- Lots of breakout room use
- People enjoyed icebreakers
- Live coding went well (peer-learning/feedback in breakout rooms)
- Etherpad didn't run well
- Alternative, jumped to framapad. Langauge issues as french was default
- Introduced an explicit physical break to move about for 5 minutes.
- Well recieved
- There was thinking about how to run it over 4 days
- At the end of the day, people were quite tired. Plus homework. Plus online overhead.
- Getting feedback through video was very tough
- Lots of talking to the screen, initially
- Minute cards
- Focused mostly on one up one down, rather than anon feedback. People gave feedback in the etherpad
- Hackpad feedback (brian)
- People had huge cognitive load. The idea of markdown was hugely distracting. Do not recommend
- Darya: many students don't know about markdown, even advanced students. Had to swtich to Rmd during online due to screen real-estate issues. It works, but does add to the timing of the workshops and the extra stuff you need to teach learners.
- Topic on discourse where Francois is looking for feedback on codimd.
- Karen: used in 2 week workshops with some success. Great tool for writing Jekyll blog posts
- Karen: Timing
- The opportunity of an overstuffed workshop is that its a great way to model how to handle it.
- Opportunity for meta-discussion
- Learners uncomoftable about "missing" material.
- Announcement notes
- No conversation
- Al-a-carte training
- Al-a-carte training requests (scholarship requests to run instructor training at no cost) are on hold.
- Unclear about member demand. Trainer availability down.
- Not a "no" -- importanly only a pause due to the current crisis
- Make sure to speak up during github
- If you are planning a local training, make sure to share seats at the event
- Darya:
- Australia focused events planned to spur community building. Open to australia members. Is this al-a-carte event?
- Karen: Any event establiushed through agreement with carpentries is allowed.
- Darya: Community building is very important. Get through aussie waiting lists.
- Al-a-carte is explicitly trainer instigated without funding and carpentries instigation
- Zoom updates
- Zoom documentation updated. Check the handbook
- Australia discussion
- Trying to fit people into teaching demo timings is tricky. How do we manage audience timezones/regions in teaching demos?
- Karen: topic came up before. We need to modify instructions for signing up for demos. OK to write specific reservation restrictions in our teaching demo.
- Matthias: meeting demand for community discussions in our TZ
- Discourse
- Making a bid for a forum
- Asking community to adopt a new tool
- New Challenge: online training as impetus for forum
- Multiple ways of soliciting feedback
- Hard to collect/distil key points from multiple channels of feedback
- Discussion needed around recommendations
- Present challenge: meeting notes and discussion around them
- Minutes are not "circulated" for approval/summary
- People don't engage after the fact
- Discussion prompt: when do we ask someone to repeat a demo?
- Talked about it 6 months ago, in a meeting. Did good job reporting out
- All minutes are on github
- Also instructor notes in instructor-training, handbook
- https://forum.carpentries.org/t/asking-learners-to-repeat-their-teaching-demo-when-and-how/68/5
- Github works well for specific topics, but doesn't fit as a forum
- Matthias: I think the fundamental issue with Issues is that they are based on a paradigm where everything is a problem that needs to be solved or disregarded.
- Brian (sidebar) RSS feed (only for open topics): https://meta.discourse.org/t/enabling-rss-feed-on-discourse-setup/55647
- Github foreign to many trainers
- Discourse has many options and fiddly bits. Opportunity for persistent discussion around topics as a community
- Ariel: got all the notifications
- Looked at one summary thing, ignored the rest
- How does this compete with slack?
- Matthias: "What online tool to let participants communicate?"
- Comparing online chat/IRC, mailing lists, online forum
- Discourse/forum strength
- Information more structured due to threading
- Finding information much easier
- Info can be browsed for
- Slack forces to you search by keyword
- Mailing list also very hard to search through
- Community needs all these modes of communication
- Slack for super-engaged people.
- Mailing list for not-engaged people
- Darya: slack as extra source of stress
- Check very occasionally
- Noise very high (most volume is local problem/discussion)
- Forum allows for nuanced discussion/approach
- Murray: "slack to me is the "instant fix" to my problem, rather than anything that requires any amount of time/thinking"
- Objective is that we have instructors engage with this forum?
- Karen: Inital idea was to open to wide-instructor community
- Cold-feet. Lots more variation in instructor community via norm buy-in
- Kelly is now working on an instructor survey
- Will feed feedback into the discourse
- Slack response: Currently have trial full version of slack. When it expires, it will be ephemeral, impossible to search.
- Murray: Big con. Yet another authoritative place for information.
- Might reduce searching places in the future. Opportunity to reduce search space
- Question posed: what is the designated policy output from discourse?
- +1 for one in one out on comms tools (seems liek topicbox may not be needed if another forum app is used)
