# Trainer meeting, November 5, 2020 UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201105T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Christina Koch (post) - https://sarahlrstevens.info/2020-10-19-ttt-online-CDT/
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers) (post bonus module) - if time
- Karen (pre)

**Others attending**   
- Toby Hodges (he/him)
- Kelly Barnes (She/Her)
- Amanda Charbonneau (she/her)
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Mike Trizna (he/him)
- Anne Fouilloux
- François Michonneau (he/him)
- Konrad Förstner (he/him)
- Maneesha Sane
- Sher! (she/her)

Apologies: Aleks Nenadic

**Agenda:**
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- 'classic' 2-day event, 9-10 people, good size for everyone to participate but not too small where people feel like they have to answer all the questions.
- Have been skipping the create-a-workshop-website activity. This time had anyone who wanted to do it sign up and set up times to meet outside the workshop and supervise setting up. Here's the template, try it, had them all screenshare simultaneously. Suggested more orientation first, next of 2 sessions gave them an orientation first and seemed to go pretty well. May do that from now on - nice to follow up with participants and get to know them a little better.
- Skipped learner profiles - there is an issue open, so please add thoughts there. They seem to be more of a curriculum dev tool. https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1163
- Feedback on Greg's intentionally bad video -- Sarah framed this as "what would you say if this was your friend, how would you phrase the feedback." Really helpful way to do this.
- Motivation section always have to re-learn every time
- Had some questions about online teaching, did an impromptu 30 minute discussion on afternoon of day 2 where we talked things through and pointed at resources.
- Had taught this material not that long ago, thought it went well that time, this time looked over notes, and just did not go well. Have to re-prep to some level every single time. Can't use the old notes necessarily and re-run through it in my head to feel like I"m communicating the way I want. Still seemed to be effective!
- some of us don't do IT as often as technical workshops. There are a lot of things I would have forgotten without review.
- observing someone else teaching a section is really useful. Do I do the thing we're talking about in this and other trainings? Like the point that moving on when people aren't ready to move on is demotivational. Hadn't really focused on that point before.
- pressure to model the practices you preach is real! They notice when things that they learn are used. It's important also to model that things don't go perfectly.
- Have grown a lot in recognizing that people still learn when I don't feel great about my teaching.
- Optional: co-working time to fill out Q1 2021 availability form


# Trainer Meeting, November 5, 2020, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201105T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Paula Martinez
- Murray Cadzow (post)
- Zac Painter and Masami Yamaguchi (post)

**Others attending**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Megan Guidry
- Samar Elsheikh
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Kelly Barnes (She/Her)
- Ariel Deardorff
- Mark Crowe
- John Simpson (He/Him)
- Evgenij Belikov (he/him)**

**Agenda:**
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Murray: 14 largely NZ-based attendees, 2 new Trainers observing. 3 main pulls of contributing memberships so good coverage of the country, everyone knows each other enough, maybe 2 degrees of separation. 4 half day afternoons made it friendly for Australians as well in the time zone. Enjoyed only prepping half day max on any given day, but did find it still took essentially 4 full days of mental effort. Nice to have time in the morning to prep for the afternoon rather than the rush to get the whol eday ready the day before. Enabled last minute prep nicely. Tried to have breaks -- feedback that they wanted more smaller breaks. Had an extra 30 minutes each day with this schedule, so that gave a little more freedom to not be rushed. 12:30-4:30 each day. Managed to cover everything with time to chat. Some feedback that people don't have opportunities to network as they do in person. Overall went well, 2 instructors already getting through checkout!
- Someone missed more than an hour and wanted help getting caught up.
- Brian: In Australia they booked in a makeup session because they ran even shorter episodes. Megan: Attendees taught each other what they had missed and that worked well.
- Here they had an extra hurdle in that the advertised time in the email was incorrect.  Did an extra person lighten the load?
- Murray: yes, 3 people on an afternoon meant the workload was quite manageable, one or two modules per day. did more oversight and admin on the side.
- 5-minute RC appearance seemed helpful.
- Official policy is they can't miss more than an hour, but for now we are offering catch-up support if they want it. Can refer to Karen if you need to.
- Incorrect time zone in the calendar previously. Time zone was advertised as AEST when it was not accurate. This time the availability form has "AEST" (UTC+11) there are still errors here. This is an ongoing issue that really needs to be solved.
- Masami: Bonus module. 5 participants engaged very well, haven't looked at post-workshop feedback 3 hour bonus module. Recommendation was to have zoom dj and lead, but split lesson between them evenly. That worked well because participants had different voice and accents, that changes up the montony a bit. 5 people into 2 groups but didn't get all activities covered. Zoom exercise time required rdepends on confidence and experience of the participants. One group took much longer than 20 minutes to complete, not even sure they completed it. They had more concerns around delivery than zoom operation. At this stage we don't think 12 is feasible. Maybe up to 10 at the most.
- 3 people in the group during the zoom breakjout. ONe person said they had done everything already. So that helped because the other 2 took a while. Very unfamiliar. Wouldn't matter the platform. Disappointed to have only 5. But they really participated.
- Kelly -- in this workshop we didn't make it very explicit that people need to cancel.
- Megan: with no-shows, in NZ the member seats they fill out the AMY form to confirm their seats. People that do that show up, typically.
- John: We've been doing online IT in Canada for about 3 years, maybe had 20+ people in some of these more private sessions, have had pretty good success with those larger numbers. Usually the training team is the same team. Allows really nice pacing. Know where to trim, know where to go, knowing what questions are coming etc. Having a new partner you don't have the same kind of rhythm.
- Murray: first time we did the website, but did it as a 15 minute this is what you do these are the key spots you need to fill in (not an activity). They really appreciate the guide to the documentation. Where to go to find help for yourself. Not sure it would work as an exercise.
- Ariel: Are there still SWC/DC/LC blogs?
- Mark: LC may have stopped cross-posting, may be confusing to find old things there.
- HPC carpentry is still doing their own blog. ONce they become part of the community it moves, but then that's confusing too.
- Karen will check with Serah on blogs and report back :)
- Brian: cognitive load: Git Markdown YAML Jekyll -- can't teach all that in 15 minutes.
- Murray: found in this most recent workshop that many people had no idea about git. That is going to be come more of an issue. It has already been an issue because DC and LC have never required git, but if no one has come through a SWC workshop before changes are they haven't got git. How much extra background do we rely on that is assumed but not taught as part of IT?
- Mark L: Have done this as 'live coding' style exercise. Takes about 45 minutes, but takes care of it.
- Evgenij: really want to keep version control
- NZ quarters would work better as:
- Feb - June, July - November. Forget Dec/Jan. Can't schedule S1 until at least late January and late Feb if teaching. S2 teaching load isn't known until classes start until mid July.
- Optional: co-working time to fill out Q1 2021 availability form
- https://forms.gle/Vp97CqqPaVCg1fjL9
