# Trainer meeting, July 16, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200716T14

****Attending****
- Angelique van Rensburg, angelique@carpentries.org
- Aleks Nenadic, a.nenadic@manchester.ac.uk
- Maneesha Sane, maneesha@carpentries.org
- Kari L. Jordan, kariljordan@carpentries.org
- Pao Corrales, paobcorrales@gmail.com
- Sher! , sheraaron@carpentries.org
- Karen Word, krword@carpentries.org

Agenda:
### Introductions
- Trainer Agreement: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k1aVugtMqLAjYhuuyUylkEt91kLQ3Jdj6dRGZsbJbvk/edit?usp=sharing

### Notes:
- Introduction: Define and motivate text to current trainers agreement - first two paragraphs of https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k1aVugtMqLAjYhuuyUylkEt91kLQ3Jdj6dRGZsbJbvk/edit
- Goal: text to share with supervisor and what does the role entail
- Adding version tracking to the greater document - this document V2
- Show dont tell policy was not very visible - updated to showcase this
- Community members participate in various ways - we want to be flexible in the service community members provide (i.e. custom trainer agreements)
- A unit structure was created.
- 48 units of service (could look like)
- 2 instructor training events
- 4 teaching demos
- 1 add training event (bonus modules)
- Leadership role
- Trainer meetings
- We recommend: Keeping skills  up and teaching one event a year/4 teaching demos a year
- MoU with service of trainer - plantinum membership for loca/institutional training - does this count as a teaching event? This will be negotiated during new trainer agreements/membership agreements.
- Scholarship training: Case by case basis. If a trainer asks Carpentries to sponsor an event, this wont count to units.
- What does not count:
- keeping up with notes if meeting not attended
- reading emails sent to TopicBox
- Keeping up to date with curriculum/github
- Teaching curriculum that fulfills all of the current requirements for instructor certification - this might be omitted.
- Provide feeedback
- How to step down as a trainer - some guidelines, will be reviewed.
- No changes of alumni status as seen in Carpentries Handbook.
- If you can think of any language changes to the document - do so by comments.

Questions:
Alex : Selforganised instructor training (all organisation of event) - 16 units don't count for the 48 as mentioned above. Clarification needed.
Karen: Distinction is not local vs global, but if the MOU/membership has written in the service of a local instructor. Thus, self-organised without MOU then it counts, if self-organised within MOU then it does not count (unless negotiated in MOU; a discount is given if local trainer offeres hrs of service).
Kari: Business team will look at all agreement of volunteers - will look at the language, make sure it is compliant to regulatory laws. Some of the changes we cant vote on since it is about compliancy. We need to communicate this to the community.
Karen: We are trying to get an updated agreement out for the new cohort of trainer. CI had an interest in reviewing the language and also to make sure all are regulatory. We are replacing v1 with v2 which they have not looked at. CI will looked at language, they might come back with changes and we need to think about how we are going to 'deal' with this possiblity. We are not asking trainers to agree to the agreement until September (once CI has reviewed all the volunteer agreements).
Paola: Not part of an agreement. Could you expand on scholarship based events. I would like to participate in instructor training first in Spanish then English. Main goal to expland instructors in South America, we dont have organisations with memberships but would like to make use of the scholarship events/opportunities.
Karen: we will do this case by case. South America is a growth area - and your role is to help grow the role. Sponsorship events are made for these initiatives. Baseline - scholarship events will not count for units but will evaluate case by cas
Alex: Reconsiling the roles of instructors and trainers. Most trainers are instructors. My role of trainer supercedes my role as instructor. We should think about teaching at workshops to count as training events and vice versa - to fulfill the instructor/trainer agreement.
Karen: Instructor agreement - we dont cut anyone if they arent active but lose voting rights. Services as instructor act as services as trainer - sounds good but not sure if we can do it. We need to run enough instructor training events through out the year. Our leadership council can make these type of requests - the panel can be responsibile for reviewing the requests. When the time comes for trainer agreement renewal the information gathered will give us more direction on how to move forward.




# Trainer Meeting July 16, 2020, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200716T22

****Attending****
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Zac Painter, zwp@stanford.edu
- Murray Cadzow (he/him), murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
- Liz Stokes  (she/her) liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au
- Kelly Barnes (she/her/hers), kbarnes@carpentries.org
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton, brian.ballsun-stanton@mq.edu.au
- Christina Koch (she/her), ckoch5@wisc.edu
- Arie Deardorff (sher/her), ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu
- Elizabeth Williams (she/her/any pronouns), ewilliams@carpentries.org
- Angela Li (she/her), ali6@uchicago.edu
- Evgenij Belikov (he/his), e.belikov@epcc.ed.ac.uk

Agenda:
### Introductions
- Trainer Agreement:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k1aVugtMqLAjYhuuyUylkEt91kLQ3Jdj6dRGZsbJbvk/edit?usp=sharing

Units:
- Note that the proposed system does not require a major change in commitments from the current system (2 teaching events, 12 meetings, 4 demos)
- Communicate this to trainers when talking about these changes

Review of removed line ("Teaching a curriculum that fulfills all of the current requirements for instructor certification")
Issue 1: do you need to teach regular workshops in *addition* to instructor training events in order to stay a "member in good standing" aka can vote in Carpentries elections (not quite the same as being a badged instructor)
Issue 2 (riffing on "standard curriculum" discussion): maybe say somewhere that *instructor training* should use the standard curriculum? Would go elsewhere in the doc, maybe under the definition of instructor training.
Issue 3 (original intent?): Trainers may also run SWC/DC/LC workshops themselves (as instructors) - these don't count toward "trainer" effort (but are probably a good idea). But again, not required to stay a trainer (and not required to maintain member status, see Issue 1) and doesn't count toward trainer commitments.

- question: does being a trainer and fulfilling trainer requirements also meet the requirements of being an instructor or do you also need to teach a certain number of regular workshops

follow up with suggestion in the document to create some personas which model different pathways for making up the 48 units; recognising that some trainers may be covering both instructor training and SWC/DC/LC workshops.

Real-time Notes:

There have been conerns about meeting capacity for IT workshops when we allow the option of teaching only one instead of two, but we anticipate that it will not be an issue, but if it is, we may need to come begging. These agreements are not binding - they are primarily intended to be a way to approach people about training on a yearly basis and to evaluate what it is that we (Trainers) do-do. People will not be kicked out - these are guidelines.

Tracking these 48 units is still on an honor system. The Core Team will be able to give reports back out to Trainers about some things and we will be actively working to show you other accomplishments in a rewarding way.

Ariel: would be cool to say to Trainers as a way to thank you for what you do as a Trainer, we provide this impact report. Would help me justify my time as a Trainer if I had an easy way to prove the impact an individual Trainer is having. Karen: we are working on it!

Sarah B.: What is the term of the agreemetn? Calendar year? 1 year from when you are certified?
Karen: We sort of ask people to do a calendar year after you are certified, but really we will be renewing the whole commuity in September. this is still informal, and we will be basically asking once a year "Are you sure that you still want to do this?" Because now we actually have a way to step down, which we did not have before. If you do renew as an active trainer and then need to step down during the course of the year, you can always change that status. We are also looking at this more in aggregate, so activities don't need to fall specifically between September to September.

Ariel: how long can we be inacctive? Karen: at the bottom of this agreement is some stuff about being an inacctive trainer (not part of the agreement). Right now it says that if you come back within 3 months, there is nothing that you need to do to resume active Trainer status. Between 3 and 12 months, Trainer needs to have a meeting with Karen. If it has been more than a year, we may have updated the curriculum so we would need to be sure that the Trainer was updated on curriculum/community.

Karen: when we ratify this agreement, we are not agreeing to it. We are agreeing about what we will or will not agree to as Trainers in September.

Karen will be addressing the comments in the document after this meeting, and then submit a PR with instructions that teh PR should be held. Trainers will be receiving a link to vote on this agreement. We are hoping to get a majority vote before next Wednesday in order to have the agreement before the new Trainer cohort is recruited. Karen will send a heads up to the Trainers list. We need a simple majority to pass, but this also means that we need a majority to actually vote.

We will not be refusing to renew people who have not been active so far this year. We may contact you and say "Are you sure you still wanna do this?"

Not sure will be able to get the profiles in, but this has really helped with language!
