# Trainer meeting, December 3 2020  UTC 14:00
- See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201203T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Mike Trizna (post) https://miketrizna.github.io/2020-12-01-ttt-online/
- Annika (post) https://zbmed.github.io/2020-11-12-ttt-online-CET/ (Nov 12-13)
- Ethiopia/WACREN - https://angeliquevanrensburg.github.io/2020-11-23-ttt-online-ethiopia/
- Sarah Brown (pre) website not made yet, but january
- **Others attending**
- Angelique van Rensburg angelique@carpentries.org @angvanrensburg
- Aleks Nenadic, she/her, a.nenadic@manchester.ac.uk, GH: @anenadic, T: @aleks_nenadic
- Kelly Barnes, She/her
- Kari L. Jordan, she/her, @drkariljordan
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Mike Trizna, he/him, triznam@si.edu
- Karin Lagesen, Oslo, Norway, she/her, karinlag
- Mateusz Kuzak, he/him, Amsterdam, the Netherlands t: @matkuzak
- Anne Fouilloux, she/her, annefou@geo.uio.no. GH: @annefou, T: @AnneFouilloux
- David Pérez-Suárez, he/him, d.perez-suarez@ucl.ac.uk, 🐙🐱@dpshelio 🐦@dvdgc13 🐘@dvdgc13@octodon.social
- Annika Rockenberger, she/her, arockenberger@gmail.com GH/T: @arockenberger
- Toby Hodges, he/him, tobyhodges@carpentries.org
- Karen Word, she/her,
- Sarah Brown, she/her,
- Angela Li, she/her
- Christina Koch (she/her)
- François Michonneau (he/him)
- Luca Di Stasio (he/him)

**Agenda:**
## Introductions (special welcome to newly badged Trainers!)
- who you are, where you are, your favourite thing about December
## Pre and post workshop discussion
### Mike
- one-up, one-down took a long time!
- Karen: helps to be very strict about the rules (be clear about them + stick to them), that you, the instructor won't respond and to keep prompting the discussion forward
- looking forward to trying 4 half-day format -- two full days on zoom is a lot!
### Margareth
- Instructor workshop in Ethiopia/WACREN - https://angeliquevanrensburg.github.io/2020-11-23-ttt-online-ethiopia/
- Did 5 half days, included checkout steps
### Annika
- Day 2 felt really full
- Feedback fatique - people stopped wanting to give feedback as the day went on! Would cut down number of feedback times and think carefully about format, how long it takes
- Karen: feedback is for you and for them; try "repackaging" feedback as a reflection (for example: one thing you learned or are still confused about instead of one positive/negative)
- Mateusz: did verbal feedback once/day (at the end), did written during the middle of the day; changed one up/one down to "tip/top" (a tip for improving, a top thing we did), have helper/other instructor model *short* verbal feedback to set the tone. :)
- Learners also wanted feedback from the trainers!! (during the live coding practice)
### Sarah B.
- First time being senior trainer! Any tips for preparing to be the more-senior trainer?
- Christina: initiate conversations about who teaching what. It's a good question, will think more about what I do as a mentoring trainer!
- Toby: has used slides/not used slides/now uses *some* slides, make sure materials are up to date, set up a template etherpad/Google Doc and remove what you're not going to cover, give the other person the choice of the parts they want to teach, offer chance to practice using zoom
- Aleks: share pared-down slide deck, have prepped Google Doc. Look at indicated timings of the whole course, talk about what you are leaving out or rearranging.
- Slides and other Trainer resources are located in this google drive folder -- please share! https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/10ncHtw4ZtNZD0ozW0rG5C-Q4yFetRY1t?usp=sharing
- Mateusz: share exercises in advance, when you skip something, try to make it invisible to learners. ;)
- David: that second pad I use it as a script, I've got there what I expect to be asked, and the "model" answers (helpful also for helpers to check), and I go up to script even the "jokes" (meaning everything, when I'm planning to breakout, how many per room, what questions may come up/...)
## Announcements
- Q1 2021 Instructor Training calendar is up! https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/training_calendar/index.html
- Mentoring Groups:https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/11/Mentoring-2021-Cycle1/
- Apply to be a Mentor or Mentee by December 13 anywhere on Earth
- Karin: what's the time commitment?
- Depends on needs/goals of mentees
- From the Handbook: "~4 hours/month for 3-5 months (or longer if accepting new Mentees). This breaks down to about 2 hours prep, 1 hour meeting and 1 hour answering emails per month. Variable depending on meeting frequency and prep time."
- https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_development/mentoring_groups.html#mentoring-groups-roles
- From application:
- *Eligibility*: Mentors should be certified instructors. It is recommended that mentors have taught at least two workshops.
- *Time commitment*: We expect mentors will commit 3-4 hours per month when leading a mentoring group. This breaks down to about 1-2 hours prep, 1 hour meeting and 1 hour answering emails per month. Variable depending on meeting frequency and prep time.
- Let's play with Zoom! (time permitting): https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362323-Changing-the-video-layout-Active-Speaker-View-and-Gallery-View-#h_01EJ7EVXH61CK63G23CJFBQY3C
- Continued discussion on governance
- https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues
- Summary of issues from Karen/Sarah
- Do staff members have voting power?
- Voting system - feedback has been to *not* use same system as for executive council
- https://electionbuddy.com/features/voting-systems/stv-voting
- Consensus around who is "eligible" - no service criteria, any active trainer can self-nominate/be nominated and then the community can decide how they want to vote!
- What do we want a quorum / majority to be to change the founding document?
- Important initial decision!!
- Question: is the quorum related also with the voting? or this is for a yes/no questions? Is quorum for the whole trainers community, or only by the governance people?
- the most pressing point here is the quorum/majority to change the governance document, so it is all trainers that are eligible to vote, but yes the leardership group should also have a quorum estabilshed for how many of them must be present to make decisions, in order to get an actually elected not appointed group in place, we are leaving some decisions to the elected group, like that one to make and propose changes to the governance document, which is why getting the procedure for changing that document right is so important.
- quorum is what portion of the trainers must vote for the vote to count
- majority is what portion of those voting must vote in favor for a change to pass
- eg if quorum is 60% and simple majority wins (51%):
 - if only 55% of the trainers vote, even if 100% of the votes are yes(55% of trainers vote yes), the change does not pass,
- if 60% vote, and 51 percent vote yes (so 31.5% of trainers vote yes) the vote does pass
- Thanks!
- Karin: CoC documents have a blurb about how to change them, could help with the last point above.
- Reflections on 2020
- Karin: the community has been so resilient! congratulations to everyone. :)
- Christina: zoom experience from the Carpentries has been SO useful in other contexts (work, community orgs) and it's been a huge gift to share that and support those groups with those skills. I can think of at least 3-4 specific instances where I was able to say "don't worry about it, we can do it online, and I can help." Also, seconding Karin's comments about how adapable and resilient the community is, and how much value there is in pooling our collective knowledge to adapt to challenging circumstances.
- Anne: same as Christina: zoom and online teaching/discussion experience.
- Sarah: being a great community of practice, for sharing teaching tips and practices, so adaptably
- 2020 made me realise how much I had taken it for granted that the carpentries are so good at online meetings in general. I had so many "everyone unmuted all at once" meetings in the first half of this year
## Welcome to new trainers
- Kelly - background in social psychology, did teaching as part of degree. Really enjoy working with people. New to Carpentries training methods, excited to try out everything learned so far!
- Luca - as instructor, appreciated both teaching and reflection on teaching. This is the next step in improving teaching expertise!
## [async] Recommendation from Diversity & Inclusion consultant
- ReadySet provided The Carpentries with a review of our organisation from an equity, inclusion, and accessibility perspective. One of their recommendations was to conduct annual assessments of adaptive learning and inclusive instructive design methods. More specifically:
- First, conduct a comprehensive internal assessment of training methodology and practices with an eye on culturally adaptive methods and accessibility. We recommend bringing in a subject matter expert who can provide insights and recommendations as a third party as well as create structure for ongoing (i.e., annual) internal audits by your team. If resources are limited, create an internal group dedicated to researching best practices and developing an initial checklist as a foundation. Look at communities like #DLNChat for resources like this one or the DO-IT Center’s Equal Access: Universal Design of Instruction as a starting point. As gaps are identified, update facilitation and design methodology as necessary — informed by unique challenges that emerge with new cohorts and new regions. Finally, develop an inclusive instruction design toolkit for adapting content to different regional contexts and for navigating challenges in new markets. Make them accessible on the website, and as part of new instructor training. Review and update annually in order to maintain relevancy.

**Questions:**
- How can we best involve our Trainers in this effort?
- What experience/expertise to you have in inclusive instructional design, adaptive learning, or any other related topics?

# Trainer Meeting December 3, 2020, UTC 22:00
- See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201203T22
**Training discussion (pre and post):**
    - Karen Word (post)
**Others attending**
- What are you most proud of for your community this year?
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin Madison - (mid instructor training - between day 1 & 2)
- Mark Laufersweiler (he/him) - University of Oklahoma- University Libraries
- Murray Cadzow (he/him) University of Otago
- Zac Painter, Stanford University
- Ariel Deardorff (she/her), University of California, San Francisco Libraryu
- Sara King (she/her), AARNet (Australia)
- Kelly Barnes (she/her)
- Claire Hardgrove, University of Sydney (she/her)
- Masami Yamaguchi (she/her) - Griffith University
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
- Adam Richie-Halford (he/him), University of Washington
- Darya Vanichkina (she/her) University of Sydney
- Liz Stokes, (she/her), ARDC, University of Technology Sydney
- Tim Dennis (he/him), UCLA
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech
**Agenda:**
## Introductions (special welcome to newly badged Trainers!)
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Karen - the workshop website activity went well - everyone already had a github account, they did it independetly but in breakout rooms, people like the instruction video
## Announcements
- Q1 2021 Instructor Training calendar is up! https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/training_calendar/index.html
- Mentoring Groups:https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/11/Mentoring-2021-Cycle1/
- Apply to be a Mentor or Mentee by December 13 anywhere on Earth
- Let's play with Zoom! (time permitting): https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/201362323-Changing-the-video-layout-Active-Speaker-View-and-Gallery-View-#h_01EJ7EVXH61CK63G23CJFBQY3C
- Continued discussion on governance
- https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues
## Reflections on 2020
- Ariel - I became a trainer at the beginning of this year and have really enjoyed immersing myself in pedagogy and instruction best practices, especially as we tried to figure out how to ove everything online. So much of instructor training content has bled over into my other classes and workshops and recently I have seen more intersections with feminist and anti-racist pedagogy (regonizing expertise of learners, more time on activities than instrutors talking, etc). I have also learned a lot from these meetings and how they are structured and run. I try and use Karen's meeting running style in other places :)
- Masami - Online environment has given the opportunity to collaborate with other countries easier, e.g., I co-taught Zac in California, which would not have happened if all sessions were delivered in person. Participating the Carpentries Japanese community is another example. There are benefit on both environment, i.e., online and face 2 face, so, from next year, I would like to see hybrid collaboration, for example, teaching online and follow up in person.
- Mark: I am worried about how to recruit our instituions next cohort of instructors. Pulling from those that have attend a workshop, they did not get the in-person experience and have a limited view of how an active learning envirornment can work. Serving has helpers does not even come close to the experience of helping at an in-person workshop. Having the abililty to talk more about the carpentries is not as easy as when in-person and makes it difficult to answer questions about being an instructor.
- Adam - I just became a trainer recently but have enjoyed learning more about the Carpentries pedagogical approach and am excited to help the UW eScience community grow. And selfishly, reflecting on cognitive load helped me build a better citizen science app that I just recently released. I hope being a good scientist makes me a good trainer and vice versa.
- Sarah - While moving online was a big transition, my major focus for our community this year was lesson development, Docker, Jekyll, Text Analysis in Python, Geospatial DC Capstone project.  I think I've learned that springs are better than weekly meetings, because when developing a lesson you sometimes just get into actually working on it in an hour so a lot gets rehashed when you meet only for an hour once a week.  Instead having short sprints of 3-4 hours once or twice a month seems to push the projects further.  Hoping to do more lesson development and continue to learn more about this process as we develop new lessons.
- Daniel: looking forward to co-teaching workshops with someone (just joined)
- Zac - At Stanford I was able to take our usual 2-4 hour workshop sequence for a term, and convert it to an online format for Fall 2020 (and theoretically Winter 2021). Most workshops actually went pretty well, and we have several new instructors to join us for some content both old and new (Python Data Science, Workflow Software with things like Singularity/NextCloud... for example). But I do wonder how sustainable this type of program is long-term, and attrition rates for workshops were higher than usual.
- Tim - Been a bit of  a whirlwind of a year, but for our local community we've grown or just about doubled in instructors. Mentoring local instructors has been a big part of what I've done for my local community. For the carpentries, working with LC and goverance and merging with the carpentries really resonated this year. Trying to provide glue to that has been stimulating and has broadened my participation in the Carpentries.
- Darya - It is important to think about the very differently sized iceberg of "life" responsibilities that different people in the community are operating with (our trainees, helpers, instructors, colleagues & peers, managers etc). My focus in 2021 will be to try to support/continue to support others with this.
- Jeff - I look forward to zealously spreading the pedagogical practices that make up so much of the Instructor Trainer curriculum. I want every graduate student at the University of Arizona to go through Instructor Training (I think there are only 4,000), but I will settle for the few we can get. Increasing accessibility and opportunity for Instructor Training is a long-term goal for me. Thanks to Trainers meetings, I also have a growing appreciation for my local flora and fauna. ;)
- Liz - I spent a lot of this year working around the edges of the trainer community, - still looking forward to teaching my first workshop (early next year pencilling in). I think what I learnt was the importance of scheduling that regular social infrastructure for which the Carpentries  is so well known for - hosting community discussions and teaching demos which have turned out to be really quite practical community infrastructure.
- Sara - So many of the skills I've gathered from Carpentry Training have been so valuable this year, beyond Carpentries itself and into all aspects of my work. Just the nature of these international zoom meetings too has meant I've been much more ready to do my whole job online - I saw how others with less experience really struggled so I'm grateful for my Carpentries community and experience! Oh and @Liz - me too! A year after doing the instructor trainer training I"ll be doing my first one too.
- Karen - we've seen the community come together and hold together around online workshops. What will happen when we can run in person workshops again? I think there are many lessons we've learned and practices that we have initiated that can also apply in person. We have cloud instances to support software installations, we have played around with challenges to make them work in breakout scenarios in ways that could be productive in-person, and we have begun surveying Instructors for their feedback. Also, I think there will be some pressures in place to keep many events online.
