# Trainer meeting, February 6, 2020  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200206T14

Training discussion (pre and post) (name, pronouns, institution, email):
Pre: Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, sarah.stevens@wisc.edu

***Others attending  (name, pronouns, institution, email):***
- Laura Acion (she/her), University of Buenos Aires - CONICET, lacion@gmail.com
- Annika Rockenberger (she/her), University of Oslo (Carpentry@UiO), arockenberger@gmail.com
- Maneesha Sane , The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org
- Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries
- Angelique van Rensburg, The Carpentries, angelique@carpentries.org, Johannesburg, South Africa
- Paola Corrales, University of Buenos Aires - CONICET, paobcorrales@gmail.com
- Ann Backhaus, she/her/hers, Pawsey Supercomputing Centre, ann.backhaus@pawsey.org.au
- Christina Koch (she/her), University of Wisconsin, Madison, ckoch5@wisc.edu
- Elizabeth Williams, The Carpentries, ewilliams@carpentries.org
- Karen Word, The Carpentries
- Caroline F Ajilogba, ARC-ISCW, Pretoria, South Africa, carolfadeke@gmail.com
- Chris PU Njoku, University of Nigeria, udochukwu.njoku@unn.edu.ng
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Sarah Brown, Brown University, smb@sarahmbrown.org

Notetaker: Christina

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Sarah: any suggestions for the first half of the first day?
- KJ: set the tone of positivity and commonality, because it is going to be a long two days!
- KJ: Uses the "What are you proud of" ice-breaker and that helps find people find things they have in common.
- CK: keep people engaged; it is a lot of talking, so actively asking them questions to keep them engaged helps and also gives you a good way to guage if people are listening.
- KW: keep an eye on the time, it is easy to let the first day get away because people are enthusiastic. There is a fair amount that can be cut back in the beginning, if you would like to let your group do their thing, so just pay attention, don't force it, but keep time for later.
- CK: had a group of 20 and each person had to go around and say thier name and say what they thought they had in common with the other people in the group, then everyone that did have that in common stepped forward. Helps to feel connected because at least a few people had something in common with everyone. Not sure how to do this online exactly...

### Announcements
- Did you see Toby's recommendation of this countdown timer tool for demos?  https://cuckoo.team/carpentries-teaching-demo
- Paula Andrea: Give everyone the link, they automatically sign in anonymously, so it doesn't ask to register or name or anything. You start the counter clicking on the 5 ball and it shows it concurrently to everyone. The only thing you need to do before hand is check if audio is allowed from the page, if not allow it for the time being, it should be a question on the browser tab that you are using.
- Clarification on lesson contributions: all contributions to all Carpentries repos (but only Carpentries repos) are being counted for checkout at this time. However, we are not ready to *solicit* contributions across the board (eg Carpentries Labs). Trainees can be counseled that the purpose of this checkout step is to engage with the process of lesson contribution in our community; maintenance varies across repos and lack of response or acceptance of a change should not be taken personally. - Karen or any Core Team
- New Trainer trainees have been added to Topicbox (yay!) and will shortly be added to #Trainers on Slack. - Karen
- Registration for Carpentry Con is open! https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/01/register-for-carpentrycon/
- Topic of the month: Scheduling Instructor Training events!

- Maneesha presenting - want to give an overview of instructor training event process for everyone to see and discuss

Three main components that are part of making instructor training happen!
1) Members joining (any time during the year) and using training seats anytime during the year (either via a public traning - see 2 below - or an individual training)
2) Scheduling a public calendar of training events (for both members + open applications)
3) Having an Instructor Training - requires infrastructure (eventbrite + zoom commitment), communication w/ trainers and trainees, post-training checkout process, ongoing communication w/ members

- Suggestions wanted!
- How can we make the sign-up/scheduling process for public events easier/less labor intensive?
- A completely alternative way to handle event scheduling?
- Can we make meaningful connections by who we schedule for a specific event?

***Questions/Comments:***
- Ann: has heard about challenges in scheduling amongst Australia because they are so far apart from each other and it's expensive to fly/hard to coordinate.
- Maneesha: for remote trainings, more important that people are in the same time zones; for in-person trainings, have to communicate that money is needed for flights/travel expenses
- Follow up Q: can you do mixed-mode trainings?
- M: We have tried it, how you do it can vary. If one group (trainers + trainees) are together and another group of trainees are remote, that doesn't work well, but if you have groups of co-located trainees + a remote trainer(s), that can work.
- Karen: it can work, but it can also go badly. The key is making sure everyone can participate equally.
- A: are trying this with other trainings (not instructor training), so can report back
- Laura: can we use previous data to predict which trainings might be under-/over- enrolled?
- Maneesha: working with a limited amount of data (1 year) but is planning to look at this
- Follow-up Q: is it possible to share this data with the community, make it a public data problem?
- Maneesha: probably could, if data was anonymized
- Christina: has the calendar of public events worked well (even if it's a pain to schedule)?
- Maneesha: that has worked well! The challenge in creating them is the hard part.
- Caroline: make a tentative list of events/trainers - so people can sign up for existing events as a "second/backup" if their event is canceled.
- Maneesha: try to send reminders, can make sure those are getting through.
- Christina: do we have a set up where people can sign up as backups, once the public calendar comes out?
- Laura - will follow-up later about sites w/o members

# Trainer Meeting February 6, 2020 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20200206T22

Training discussion (pre and post) (name, pronoums, institution, email):

***Others attending  (name, pronoums, institution, email):***
- Liz Stokes, she,hers Australian Research Data Commons, Sydney,*apologies for late arrival, school run in the rain* liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au
- Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org
- Murray Cadzow, he/him, University of Otago, murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
- Konrad Förstner, he/him, ZB MED / TH Köln, foerstner@zbmed.de
- Megan Guidry, she/her, New Zeland eScience Infrastructure, megan.guidry@nesi.org.nz
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton, he/him, Macquarie University, brian.ballsun-stanton@mq.edu.au
- Matthias Liffers, Australian Research Data Commons, matthias.liffers@ardc.edu.au
- Darya Vanichkina, Sydney Informatics Hub, University of Sydney
- Elizabeth Williams, The Carpentries, ewilliams@carpentries.org

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- Did you see Toby's recommendation of this countdown timer tool for demos?  https://cuckoo.team/carpentries-teaching-demo
- Paula Andrea: Give everyone the link, they automatically sign in anonymously, so it doesn't ask to register or name or anything. You start the counter clicking on the 5 ball and it shows it concurrently to everyone. The only thing you need to do before hand is check if audio is allowed from the page, if not allow it for the time being, it should be a question on the browser tab that you are using.
- Clarification on lesson contributions: all contributions to all Carpentries repos (but only Carpentries repos) are being counted for checkout at this time. However, we are not ready to *solicit* contributions across the board (eg Carpentries Labs). Trainees can be counseled that the purpose of this checkout step is to engage with the process of lesson contribution in our community; maintenance varies across repos and lack of response or acceptance of a change should not be taken personally. - Karen or any Core Team
- (For when you revise the default text: https://github.com/carpentries/styles/issues/452)
- New Trainer trainees have been added to Topicbox (yay!) and will shortly be added to #Trainers on Slack. - Karen
- Topic of the month: Scheduling Instructor Training events! - you may consider recording Maneesha's presentation
- Extra items
- Australia training coordination
- NZ training coordination
- Experimental 8w training, Darya/Brian
- https://prezi.com/view/s9jXZPVWhPWJYsShvls1/

- Matthias: ARDC is volunteering my time (0.2 FTE) to work as a regional coordinator in Australia with Damien Irving. Mandate will be to work with members and do more community building things that Damien doesn't have time to do. What would work well is to plan a calendar of events out for the whole calendar year. Universities there do their planning on the Academic year which matches up with the annual calendar. Don't necessarily frontload the year with lots of instructor training. Darya has to take annual leave to do training, and also likes to see her family, so needs lots of notice. The preference in australia seems to be in-person trainings. Because members and Trainers are not distributed similarly, this new batch of Trainers will hopefully help (though still distributed a bit weirdly). What could work for Australia, there is a big preference for in-person training, online 2-day training is pretty heavy, so spreading out over 8 weeks migh towkr. Concerns over attrition, but ARDC would ike to train up more instructors in areas without lots of instructors, with the blessing of their employers. By getting employer buy-in maybe we can combat attrition.
- Murray: Very similar vein to what's the case in New Zealand.
- Maneesha: We've definitely seen that scheduling seems to work differently in Aus/NZ
- Brian: CUltural norms around paying for travel here are very different than in the uS. As an example the UTS training where we flew people in from the other side of the country -- the frustration doesn't map too well. IN the states flying someone from NY to Chicago isn't a big deal, but here so much more bureaucracy is involved in that than you might expect.
- Matthias: Asking people to pay for transport on top of the membership is actually a big chunk of the university budget -- they could employ someone 1 day a week for the same price as the membership and might be more useful.
- Liz: Quite true. In terms of membership you often find it's the smaller units that are the true believers trying to carve out a membership seeing the long view, but their pots of money don't necessarily cover. Wants to mention discussion of community calls. Core work hours have been implemented at University in Sydney around having more family-friendly work hours. 10AM-4PM in effort to make it easier to get a broader cross-section and include part-time staff, those with child responsibilities. Sometimes even 3 isn't great. This is a really good mode of scheduling that would like to see in The Carpentries. UTC 02:00 crosses those core work hours across Aus/Nz/Maylasia. Would be a good model for scheduling Community Discussions and any Trainer meetings for this time zone.
- Maneesha: Community calls & teaching demos used to be scheduled at fixed times because we didn't have the staff capacity to schedule. We've now implemented Calendly scheduling of demo sessions, hoping that Trainers reflect a good cross-section of the community. We are about to pilot doing the same thing for Community Discussions. Hosts will select their own times, hoping they will schedule things that a better representation of community will attend
- Darya: Talking about piloting distributed online training would allow to teach without taking leave. Would be easier for others in the Aus/NZ community to become certified. Why don't we just try using this time. Quite a few people who have been approved have tried to find online events and can't find anything. This is something that might work. Don't know who even is on the waiting list to become an Instructor.
- Maneesha: Whole process - we recognize this is skewed for US/Canada time zones. We have asked for availability but it doesn't always fit. It seems more clear why this is more of a challenge than it might be other places.
- Murray: ONe thing we've tried with NZ is when we have an INstructor training to schedule a few slots for demos and let people know they need to sign up quickly. This might help to schedule exact demos with the trainings
- Darya: would love that. Would love to help out.
- Murray: West coast US likes our time slots and they get in there real fast.
- Karen : can connect Open trainees w Darya
- Murray: scheduling training events we almost prefer to go to our regional coordinator and ask who needs trainings, set them up and sort them out. The 3 month calendar doesn't work well.
- Megan: really happy to be in that role and have been movin in that direction. Confusing because never know really where my place is -- need to be more part of these conversations. Easy for me to find who is looking to get training.
- Matthias: Anecdote from this week. Currently reaching out to member orgs one of them got back to me and said not all of last year's instructors could do Demos yet. Emailed Karen but Brian offered to do one. Been coordinator for about a month. Still working out who is the right person to talk to about what. All deliberately divided up. Who does community discussions?
- Darya: Having our folks talk to people overseas leaves them out of the loop for local community events. Having Matthias as the contact to coordinate who wants online and who wants in-person training would be ideal. Local citations also matter
- Megan: what we did last year in NZ was send out expression of interest to see who wanted to attend, then told The Carpentries what dates work, ran them then as regional coordinator kept a spreadsheet (small enough that one person could do that). Tracked and introduced to those people. Really successful making the effort - massive +1
- Murray: I think the regional coordinators are in a very powerful position to grow the local communities due to their ability to know what's going on regionally
