# Trainer Leadership Committee Meeting 2023-03-21 23:00 UTC
Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

## Attendance
- Attending - Karen, Mark, Nathaniel, Pao, Annajiat, Trisha
- Apologies - None
- Absent - None

## Notes
### Core Team Update
  - A note on Committee empowerment & roles for Karen & Trainer community
    - Early committee had an emphasis on community consultation. This is important, but we also need to recognise that the committee was elected to take decisions on behalf of the community, so it does have that authority.
  - Process for self-organized trainings
    - Working on updating the process, new google form (no link yet)
  - Community request to re-poll for trainer community meeting times / consider moving meeting #2 later to accommodate time zones
    - No actions items were recorded in discussion with prior Leadership
    - Tentative plan
      - ask at Meeting 2 if people could show up an hour later
      - if consent is unanimous, make the change for future meetings and announce
      - if consent is not unanimous, trainers leadership will implement a way to poll for likely attendance impacts of potential changes before deciding
  - Checkout project implementation planning
    - Development of a timeline is underway, along with planning for required infrastructure/support systems
    - Lots of planning about communication and updates
  - Timeline for [Active Status Renewal](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#participation-expectations-for-active-instructor-trainers)
    - To do: 
      - Decide on automation criteria for 2023
        - Mark: Overall automation criteria were good. Only one to be added might be if people had run 2 workshops will that override the need to do demos and meetings. Only other thing we did was review the form. There was nothing that stood out as something else we could automate. Once we have had a discussion that should be the only item. Do we need to change the handbook text?
        - Karen: Most handbook changes should be unnecessary as they are covered in “or equivalent”
      - If changes are requested, schedule with infrastructure team
      - Update [Google form](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12NQqSp9h6KqNzikoQUsbC-L3cO77Pd62sz3kxVFZd2Y/edit?usp=sharing) 
      - Update email templates 
      - Implementation steps:
        - Send emails
        - Review forms
        - Follow up by email to accept or request a meeting
        - Process and inform re inactivation
    - Next steps
      - Finalize changes
      - Submit timeline as proposal? 
      - What else should be public?
    - See action items below.
### Leadership business
  - Select Chair (with possible co-chair) and Secretary
    - Mark is happy to continue as Chair
      - Elected using Martha's Rules (Like, Can Live With, Uncomfortable)
    - Nathaniel is willing to serve as Secretary
      - Elected using Martha's Rules
  - Semi-annual report to Executive Committee
    - Mark will prepare this
  - [PRs](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls)
    - Who should click the “merge” button on what?
      - Committee minutes are automatically eligible for merging by any member once they have been put up as a PR for 30 days
      - Nathaniel: I like the idea of having reviewers on anything else that goes up even if it’s just grammar and spot check. If it’s ok, I’d be perfectly fine adding review requests that tag the group, would allow anybody in Leadership to review and approve.
      - Annajiat: proposed to set it automatically to ping everyone and anyone who approves it can merge.
  - [Proposal issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AProposal)
    - Mark will take up ownership of revised [trainer community responsibilities issue](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184) and will bring it to the next meeting. Will present it at the next meeting.
  - Time: Keeping trainers leadership at this current time, but using UTC to avoid problem of daylight saving time changes
    -Meetings will take place at 23:00 UTC the 3rd Tuesday of each month (Wednesday for some)
    -Backup meetings 23:00 UTC on the 4th Tuesday
