# Trainer Leadership Committee Meeting 2023-02-09 21:00 UTC
Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Mark, Pao, Sarah, Jeff, Karen
Apologies:
Absent:Bonny

1. Core Team Updates
    - Recommendations to the next Leadership committee & Core Team regarding 
    certification renewal
        - For now, what is a good _process_ for addressing this?
        - How can we ensure trainers are up to date with latest curriculum 
        (changes) and policies?
    - Community request to re-poll for meeting times / consider moving meeting 
    2 to later in the day
        - Karen: Some interest in changing meeting time from community, but 
        wary of polling the community after so many requests for input. May 
        just ask at next meeting 2 to see if one hour shift later works.
    - Trainer Training application form
        - Communities of practice question discussion
2. Handover process to new committee
    - Mark and Pao are staying! :) will need a new secretary :( 
        - Jeff: Main thing is getting minutes in good shape so we can get them 
        on GitHub. That's the main role as Secretary. Markdown formatted plain 
        text document, copying from CodiMD, making it pretty, making sure all 
        links that need to be redacted are confirmed etc. Skills needed: 
        markdown and submitting PRs.
        - Sarah: Also requesting review
        - Jeff: happy to answer questions/help with skills transfer.
        - Sarah: also still on Slack and available for async support, just have 
        trouble with meetings
        - Karen will send out a poll soon to schedule an onboarding meeting for 
        the new crew.
3. Remaining open issues and PRs
    - [Update certification renewal to reflect roles vs. badges](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/231) 
        - To remain open until ratified
        - Karen needs to comment on this and make PR ready for merge. 
    - [Develop "Trainer Meeting Guide"](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201) 
        - Will have to wait for new committee
        - Waiting on new handbook development 
    - [Revise trainer community responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184) 
        - Draft proposal - for new committee?
        - Sarah can comment on this issue and maybe update with some more 
        concrete ideas about changes.
    - [December and January Committee meeting and Trainer meeting minutes](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls)
        - December TLC merged
        - January needs one approval and two weeks (or four approvals)
        - Sarah: Trainer meeting notes don't need anything fancy, any 
        Leadership member can approve and merge. Sometimes proofread a little 
        but no need for more than one approval. Just has to be reviewed by 
        somebody because of repository rules.
    - [Trainer meeting topics issues for closing](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen++label%3Atrainermeeting)
