[December 14 2020](#december-14-2020)

[November 9 2020](#november-9-2020)

[October 12 2020](#october-12-2020)

[September 14 2020](#september-14-2020)

[August 10 2020](#august-10-2020)

[July 13 2020](#july-13-2020)

[June 8 2020](#june-8-2020)

> [Agenda:](#agenda)

[May 11 2020 - (reboot)](#may-11-2020---reboot)

[January 29 2020](#january-29-2020)

[January 15 2020](#january-15-2020)

[December 18 2019](#december-18-2019)

[Notes from Meeting 2:](#notes-from-meeting-2)

> [Minutes:](#minutes)

[Notes from Meeting 1 -
2019:](#notes-from-meeting-1---2019)

> [Roles](#roles)

December 14 2020
================

Attending:

Brain Ballusn-Stanton

Mark Laufersweiler

Aridam Basu

Karen Word

Sarah Brown

Tim Dennis

Kelly Barnes

Agenda:

January 11 (UTC) meeting. February meeting?

[current
issues]() &
PRs

[nominations
form]()

Concern about providing evidence of leadership favors folks who have
been heavily involved, which may differ depending on leadership status.
Those currently serving will have an advantage.

"Describe your experience" vs providing evidence.

Mark: I agree with Brian. I don't think AMY would show all the things
I've done e.g., on the committee for the first CarpentryCon. We can
probably assume they are doing the basics like teaching. I want to know
what else you are doing.

Sarah: I like Brian's question 1 in the issue. Maybe we expand it to
governance policy and maintenance. (BBS +1)

Karen: With regard to the questions Brian has suggested, it is very
specific. Do we need to modify it to clarify some of the things we've
discussed?

Brian: Regardless of what you think of my questions, we need to split
the essay question.

Karen: Maybe we should consider some Trainer profiles.

-   New trainer: Examples of how they have done community organizing,
    > etc. but may not have anything to say about engaging with trainers

What do we want to know?

Brian: We might want a second question. I want to see that someone is
one of us. Leadership skills are somewhat transferable but community
knowledge is very different than generic leadership.We could add a
question for non-Carpentries leadership.

Mark: When we go through the applications for people who want to be
trainers, don't we look for carpentries involvement? Isn't that already
covered?

Karen: Most of the time, but not always

Mark: Explain in a little more detail. What other forms of leadership
have you engaged in? We are all conscious of not creating barriers for
people who are in new communities

Brian: Do we want to soften any of this with "if applicable"

Arindam: We want to cut people some slack. We need a group who can
compliment each other rather than everyone being the same. (Both
compliment and complement, :-), /Arin) Oops!, my bad. No worries!

Mark: Instead of if, let's come out and say it "We recognize that
Carpentries communities aren't available in all areas/are at different
states of development. Give us your best Carpentries leadership example
or equivalent"

Sarah: I think Brian's second question is too vague. We want to know
that people have opinions and thoughts on topics related to governance

Arindam: How about instead of keeping it so open, you ask them to write
a paragraph about the things they would like to address as part of
leadership. Leave it more specific to what we want to see instead of
leaving it as a blue sky kind of thing so it is easier to compare. Frame
it like a debate. We put a statement and ask them to respond to that
statement.

Mark: Pick one of the three major issues and why you think it is the
most important.

Arindam: Benefit to the group because we get some good insights.

Sarah: We want questions about how they want to engage as a leader. The
content of what they want to do, but also what is their style for
engaging (the procedures).

Brian: In the last year, we had a sub-committee on regional development,
curriculum, etc. Which of these are you most interested in

Brian: Optional Resources - Record of the last year

Next Steps:

Karen: I would like to get this nomination form out to the community by
Wednesday morning Pacific Standard Time. We will need to finish the rest
of the documentation asynchronously in github, so it can go to Kari and
then the Executive Council.

Promotional strategy document
[here]().

November 9 2020
===============

Attending:

Kelly Barnes (She/Her)

Sarah Brown

Arindam Basu , [email removed] Ballsun-Stanton

Mark Laufersweiler (he/him)

Agenda:

-   Debrief status updates (Karen)

    -   Karen: The trainer agreement probably needs to move away from
        > sounding like a binding agreement. It should be more like
        > guidelines of this is what we expect, tell us what you would
        > like to do.

    -   Status Update results

        -   Quite a lot of people who requested credit for various
            > things

        -   Most people said they want to remain active. 1 person used
            > the form to say they wanted to go inactive.

        -   Of the folks who responded,

            -   40 expected to fulfil the agreement as is

            -   20 requested a reduced load

            -   16 had activities they wanted to request credit for

        -   Types of requests

            -   Some people have questions (e.g., membership)

            -   Can Carpentry Connect Organizing count

            -   Regional Coordination activities/Local community
                > building

        -   17 people did not fill out the form.

        -   Karen: We are learning a lot about what people do and what
            > people want to do.

        -   Three classes of trainers:

> 1\) Being a trainer helps with their local community team building. 2)
> those who train instructors as volunteers.
>
> 3\) Those who train in their institution as part of their job.

-   Each class has different needs

<!-- -->

-   Juggling different motivations for people wanting to be trainers is
    > challenging. But, we did learn a lot from the status updates and
    > it will help us create something that will work better.

-   Sarah: We should give a brief update on the kind of requests we said
    > yes to at the trainer meeting. Close the loop on the conversation.

<!-- -->

-   Governance!

    -   We have a meeting in around 2 weeks where we will be saying
        > something to the trainer community governance.

    -   [Issues]()

        -   What should "trainer in good standing" mean?

            -   Sarah: I tried to draft two options.

            -   Brian: I vastly prefer the language of
                > [\#10]().
                > Or what if we say 3 trainings over the last 2 years.
                > Mark: This matches what Greg Wilson suggested in the
                > past for "instructor in good standing"

        -   Panel size

            -   Karen: Currently says 9. Can we get 9 people in the
                > first year? Would we be able to find a meeting time
                > for all those people?

            -   Brian: Max based on group dynamics literature (maybe 7)
                > and maybe instead of a minimum we do quorum. Odd
                > numbers are important.

            -   Tim: If we are going to be writing by-laws, 9 is
                > probably too many.

            -   Mark: Quorum - you take ½ and add 1.

            -   5 with a quorum of 3?

    -   What to present to Trainers

        -   What do we need to present now vs. what can we leave for
            > later?

            -   Address Now

                -   

            -   Leave for later

                -   Next trainer agreement

                -   Liaisons

                -   Interactions with other communities

        -   Goals: approval, feedback, recruitment, ?

        -   Who will be at which meeting?

            -   Sarah - AM

            -   Tim - PM

            -   Mark - both AM and PM

            -   Kelly - both AM and PM

        -   Posting to Trainers repo - when?

    -   What to present to EC (if anything)

    -   Elections To-Do list

        -   Decide on elections procedures

            -   Info request from candidates

            -   Self vs other nominations

            -   How long will form be open

            -   Choose actual dates

            -   Core Team set up ElectionBuddy

            -   Where to post candidate info for community to see

            -   Barebones duties roles responsibilities

                -   Chair appoints scribe vs secretary?

                -   Attendance

                -   Note these can be changed by the next group

                    -   Can anything not be changed?

October 12 2020
===============

Attending:

-   Brian

-   Mark

-   Karen

-   Sarah

-   Tim

Agenda:

-   Upcoming meetings (recurring item)

    -   Next meetings are: November 9 & December 14 (at this time)

    -   Brian is on leave in December. Perhaps more meetings sooner

<!-- -->

-   Status updates revisited

    -   [Form]()

        -   Suggest changing yes no to actual selected option in
            > most/all cases cases.

        -   \- suggest changing " I agree but may inactivate" to
            > something more clear about "I agree and hope but have
            > uncertainty" then add a last section with an anything else
            > you'd like to say before submitting.

        -   

    -   [Trainer
        > profiles]()

    -   Email

        -   Encourage people to submit activities they think should be
            > credited?

Scheduling TTT events: should be able to volunteer for backup or
constrain volunteering to local things.

-   Karen's project overview

    -   Start bylaws in terms of election process.?

    -   January may be a good vote period. What do we needto have done
        > to have elections the third week in January?

    -   What needs to be in the bylaws to make that election possible?

    -   Let the next generation continue finalizing the bylaws.

    -   Current people could continue to serve even if they don't run
        > for election.

    -   Need to respect vacations. Don't want to spend holidays doing
        > these things. Maybe January is a prep period (nominations
        > etc?)

    -   Announce Elections in November Trainer meeting. In January we
        > say this is how it's going to go.

    -   How much approval do we have to get to go ahead with the
        > elections.

    -   Good to stagger elections. EC starts in
        > [February](),
        > elections in November. If we electfebruary to start in March
        > that will work

    -   First act of incoming committee should be to ratify the
        > operating rules. But how much needs to be there for them to
        > work with? This is a question we can ask the EC.

    -   Community wanting there to be a governance group should be
        > clear.

    -   Don't want to make all Trainers read the bylaws. That's what
        > this group is for. Elected group

    -   Do term limits need to be approved by the whole community?

        -   Sarah's PR was to have term be 1 year, opt to continue to 3
            > years, after that need to be re-elected.

        -   Most people don't really want to do 3 years. Will always
            > have people electing not to renew. Automatic renewal up to
            > 3 (or 2?) makes sense \-- low expectations but option to
            > continue.

-   Governance

    -   [Repository]()
        > [email removed] (tim)

        -   What is "good standing"?

            -   Active status is probably enough. They can talk about
                > their activity in their election material.

        -   Have to remove people if they are preventing quorum. Maybe
            > wait and let the body decide if they need a mechanism to
            > remove people.

        -   Maybe look at Instructors for removal for reasons of cause.
            > Other things should have boilerplate text somewhere.

        -   Do we want to have a minimum and maximum number of people or
            > 9 for both?

        -   

    -   Next steps

        -   Maybe Nov 19 meeting will be good for introducing elections
            > to community.

September 14 2020
=================

Attending:

-   Brian

-   Kelly

-   Mark

-   Karen

-   Sarah

Notes:

Agenda:

-   Karen's "official" project for Q4 to dedicate time and broader Core
    > Team support for this group

    -   Continue to make baby steps on governance, but the priority
        > right now is renewing trainer agreements.

-   Upcoming [Trainer
    > Agreement]()
    > renewal plans

    -   Karen is a little worried about this. She thinks there are
        > people who are still concerned about how it applies to them.
        > Someone from the EC emailed Karen about concerns that the new
        > agreement creates more demands for them.

-   Flexible units ideas to share? (Start: Sarah's '[Trainer
    > profiles]()')

    -   Would like to expand on the work that Sarah did on Trainer
        > Profiles so we can share with the community prior to renewals.

    -   Brian: one thing that is missing from these profiles is
        > institutional people. That could be a source of confusion.
        > Karen or Brian will create a profile for a member in an MOU

    -   Sarah: We could also write a persona relevant to someone on the
        > EC

    -   Let's discuss the boundaries of what we want to offer credits
        > for?

        -   Eg. Leadership in the maintainer community vs. maintainer in
            > a technical lesson community

        -   Sarah: The agreement says other things are subject to the
            > approval of the Trainers Leadership group

        -   Karen: We could have a well-worded question on the form

        -   Mark: Address the things that have already been brought
            > forward, but we can't plan for every thing that will come
            > up. Maybe we can count some local stuff for geographic
            > areas where they struggle to find engagement opportunities
            > due to bandwidth and other issues

        -   Kelly: Can we reach out to Angelique? Karen says she will
            > connect with her

    -   Brian: What happens if you have a training planned/approved, but
        > it gets cancelled not due to the instructors? Karen: this is
        > also a problem in Europe. Yes, we should put a note in that if
        > the event is cancelled, it still counts.

    -   Mark: Maybe we should think of it as working in the community
        > good if some places end up doing more than others. Similar to
        > the way that families with kids get some additional things
        > (like vacation time if the child has school off) than those
        > who don't. Equitable.

    -   What do we do about trainers in areas (e.g., Africa) where there
        > are not a lot of teaching options

        -   Could there be options for asynchronous engagement

    -   New Personas to add

        -   Executive Council

        -   MOU

        -   More asynchronous and low bandwidth synchronous
            > options/local community organizing

    -   Add a question to the form:

        -   Alternative options to suggest

        -   Do you need a reduced load? With an optional explanation
            > box.

        -   What if we use sufficiently vague checkboxes with an other
            > option

            -   Personal or family issues (e.g., health)

            -   Lack of access to opportunities to participate

            -   Temporary Work-related

            -   Other

    -   How do you ask these questions so they are not offensive and so
        > they know we aren't keeping their answers?

-   More baby-steps on governance: [Powers and
    > Responsibilities]()

    -   Ideally we will be ready for elections by January

August 10 2020
==============

Attending:

-   Mark Laufersweiler

-   Tim Dennis

-   Karen Word

-   Sarah Brown

-   Brian Ballsun-Stanton

-   Danielle Quinn

Notes: Karen

Agenda:

Governance (Mark)

-   Karen: Trainers repository as home for such things?
    > [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers]()

-   What are the basic tenets of a committee?

-   We don't have a mission statement, but we need a kind of one liner.

    -   Purposes: inclusive voice on behalf of and accountable to the
        > trainer community

    -   Provide guidance and feedback as it relates to policies and
        > procedures with respect to instructor training

    -   **9** members, active trainers. **3** elected each year, term of
        > **3** years.

-   Roles

    -   Chairperson

        -   Elected by committee members at first meeting after
            > elections

        -   **1** year term

        -   Leadership

        -   Moderator of meetings

        -   With secretary, set agendas & distribute 24h before

        -   Representative to EC meetings

        -   Annual report?

    -   Secretary

        -   Collect & post minutes

        -   Prepare etherpad

        -   Identify notetaker (should rotate)

    -   Members

        -   Attend meetings

        -   Serve on subcommittees

        -   Assist chair with report

    -   Non-voting members

        -   EC

        -   Staff

        -   Maintainer community?

-   Meetings

    -   2x per month (second meeting optional

    -   Carpentries says at least 4 meetings, once per quarter

-   Stepping down

    -   Replacement could be nominated, vetted by committee, appointed,
        > run in next election to serve remainder of term. Alternatively
        > could appoint to fill full term, or elect immediately.

Brian: Is the purpose actually what The Carpentries wants from us?

Karen: We could be more specific

Brian: truth in advertising. What authority is granted here?

Sarah: Since EC doesn't know what they want yet, we could tell them what
we want them to want from us. Rather than waiting.

Danielle: First impression is we have Chair, Secretary, what are the
specific member roles. That really goes along with what is it that we're
trying to do and what type of leadership will we need to make that
happen.

Brain: we need an expectation of time commitments and current
subcommittees.

Mark: Task forces can always be formed within committee, don't need
formal approval. Standing roles vs standing committees. DOn't want to
lock in to anything, need wiggle room and have ability to take on
issues. Task force doesn't mean anything... don't want to scare anybody
into a power grab

Committee is responsible for vetting applicants, etc. There are certain
things that it doesn't make sense for staff to do.

We need workload specified

Is 3 years a good term limit?

Tim: this is a little long. 2 years might be better?

Sarah: women in machine learning board positions were 1 year commitment
except treasurer and president. We could have a mix of shorter and
longer term cycles.

Brian: How about a term limit of 3 years, but many early career
researchers, 1 year is probably as much as they can plan for. Hold
elections each year.

Mark: thinking about those who can't participate in trainings. Having a
regular enough schedule to fill their requirements? Chairmanship being
elected by community rather than the body would allow longer term for
that role.

Danielle: if you are in a role like president, if you are in a regular 1
year term, the following year you are in a 'past president' role with
less hours.

Mark: could also have a chairman-elect role to ramp up to leadership.

Brian: that also means we de-facto have a vice-chair which is always
useful.

Danielle: encouraging people who may not have time to really commit: is
there space for subcommittees and task forces that they are apble to
bring people on for 6 months etc.

Mark: Generally the committee member is chair of the task force and they
can pull from the community. They become the responsible party for being
a mini subchair. Specific task or problem to solve. Pull in 5 people
from Trainer body, introduce them to larger community and think about it
as an opportunity later on in their careers. Committee still has the
oversight.

Task forces are generally 1 year max. Don't want them to turn into a
standing committee. Don't foresee need for standing committee.

Sarah: we are currently functioning as if we have standing committees.
Community building, maintaining, application review...

Tim: We are a lesson program as well as being a community as well as...
so we should have some standing things like maintainers and outreach

Standing committees are written into the charter. Subcommittees are kind
of between task force and standing committee.

-   We maintain lessons for IT

-   We vet the Instructor pool & Trainer pool

What is the role of the committee and what is the role of the
subcommunity?

Next steps:

1 year or 2 year with election of chair and vice-chair

Who needs to approve this?

Put initial thing in GitHub. Can discuss

Put draft to executive council (ask forgiveness not permission). Build
the best we can, this group is initial vetting, then start putting in
comments, show EC, then take to Trainers.

Dropbox link. Can put on GitHub personal repository. Can fork over so
that all comments are available for transparency. Everyone send GitHub
ID

denubis

DanielleQuinn

brownsarahm

Jt14den

Updates

July 13 2020
============

Attending: Mark Lauersweiler

Sarah Brown

Brian Ballsun-Stanton

Tim Dennis

Karen Word

Kelly Barnes

Notes: Kelly

Agenda:

-   [Revised Trainer
    > Agreement]()

    -   Comments

    -   Brian;

        -   It seems weird to use voting member as some kind of badge.
            > That's not why people do this.

        -   Can we open with what it means to be a trainer?

        -   Right now it seems like in exchange for all of the extra
            > work, you get to vote. Can we change the equilibrium a
            > little bit? Maybe articulate our values.

            -   Karen: We are trying to add the ability for trainers to
                > get seats for instructor training that they can give
                > out.

            -   Mark: List of benefits would be good, but they can go
                > later in the document.

    -   Mark:

        -   Get rid of the mention to the document changing in the first
            > paragraph and add an addendum of when it was voted and
            > adopted to the end.

    -   Sarah:

        -   First paragraph feels weird. Agree with opening with what it
            > means to be a trainer.

    -   Effort accounting scheme:

        -   Brian: Is there a reason we need to include 1 trainer
            > training per year? Can you make it 48.

        -   Sarah: Section can be simplified.

            -   Does service only mean service to the trainer community
                > or The Carpentries as a whole? How does being a
                > maintainer fit in here?

            -   Should we state an approximate 1 credit per hour so
                > people have an idea of how much work we need?

            -   Community leadership should maybe be redefined

            -   Mark: Recognize on a case by case basis that other
                > Carpentries service can be substituted

        -   Sarah: It\'s not clear what other custom situations would be
            > and how they would count. Not necessarily covered by
            > leadership.

        -   Mark: Borrow format from graduation checklist. Sarah
            > recommends that be supplemental rather than part of the
            > agreement. Create a worksheet and have trainers map out
            > the things they plan to do during the year and turn that
            > in to The Carpentries.

    -   What counts with relation to local efforts discussion

        -   Local training under membership and people's a la carte
            > training do not count toward trainer service

        -   Mark: It used to be encouraged that trainers not train their
            > local communities to have more experiences with different
            > teaching styles.

        -   Brian: There is regional variation. In Australia they are
            > trying to do the opposite.

    -   What constitutes ratifying this document?

        -   Mark: in the past, it was a simple majority of active voting
            > members. A week of open voting. Sent out a unique url.

        -   

-   Trainer application review: Aug 4ish

    -   Copy of current application
        > [here]()

    -   We are going to be looking at the trainer application review
        > process.

    -   Should this be considered a point in the trainer accounting?

    -   Karen to send the rubric

    -   If we can describe what we need, Brian can help get this
        > automated.

    -   Last time there were too many columns. Hard to manage all the
        > applications in the spreadsheet.

    -   Sarah had feedback immediately after. Karen is going to go back
        > and look for it.

    -   Tim: It would be good to see the rubric. There may be some
        > places to tweak.

    -   Maybe we should ask the Executive Council about areas to
        > prioritize

    -   Based on demand, we are looking to prioritize North America this
        > time

-   Updates

June 8 2020
===========

Attending:

Sarah Brown

Karen Word

Mark Laufersweiler

Danielle Quinn

Tim Dennis

Brian Ballsun-Stanton

Kelly Barnes

Notes: Kelly

Agenda:
-------

Updates & Discussion (as applicable)

-   Regional community-building: Danielle, Brian

    -   [google docs link removed]()

    -   Danielle and Brian met. Highlights: they were on the same page,
        > but coming at it from two different sides. The issues are not
        > just issues from Australia. If someone is doing something of
        > value, we can show specific ways that we recognize what people
        > are doing. As far as building community, we need someone to
        > check in on people (and organisations \-- as a specific role)
        > and see if they are doing ok and are happy with The
        > Carpentries (allocate training due to local needs, deal with
        > package negotiation, making sure trainers are building local
        > communities in preference to flying, etc). In Canada, there is
        > a partnership between Carpentries and CompuCanada. There is
        > not always clear communication to keep track of where
        > instructors are. We need a better regional idea of where
        > instructors are.

    -   Data on instructors is a very real need, but there is also the
        > requirement for the Carpentries to be GDPR compliant. We need
        > a solution and to figure out the best way to push for that.
        > How do we know where the grad students who are instructors
        > land when they leave their universities? They want to go seed,
        > but do we know what happens to them and if they are able to
        > get connected in their new region?

    -   Do people who are trained under memberships have access to the
        > Carpentries mailing lists? Yes, but it is voluntary. They may
        > not sign up or they may lose their university email when they
        > leave.

    -   We need some templates/workflows for when people leave the
        > institution they were trained at.

    -   There is an important gap between training and checkout. When
        > they finish, we lose track of them. They want to teach, but
        > they probably won't organize their own workshops or chase down
        > leads of workshops to teach.

    -   Contact information goes stale very quickly.

    -   How do we present patterns to regional coordinators and make a
        > space for this stuff to happen?

    -   Action item: Karen to talk to Maneesha and/or François and will
        > report back at our next meeting.

    -   Action item: what makes a region to The Carpentries? Brian and
        > Danielle to continue thinking about and discussing this.

-   Curriculum: Karen, Tim, Sarah

    -   Sarah and Tim now have Maintainer status and they have been
        > given minimal guidance. Sarah has done a lot and Tim is
        > looking for opportunities to jump in. Next steps: meet to talk
        > about the next curriculum update. Possibly fall?

    -   If the curriculum changes right after a curriculum update, it
        > may make a new trainer's experience more chaotic, but it may
        > not be an issue. Will new trainers get paired with an
        > experienced trainer?

    -   Maybe we can have a Content freeze (x weeks before) and editing
        > freeze (y weeks before) prior to training. Have a change log
        > that people can read to see what has changed.

    -   It will help if we set a date now for an update and publicize
        > it.

    -   Pain point: people teach from github and not the releases.

    -   How often do we plan to do a curriculum update/new release?
        > Ideally one per calendar year. One content update, one tweaks
        > update. We are very overdue for a content update.

    -   One of the benefits of The Carpentries curriculum is its
        > flexibility. We don't want a release schedule to get in the
        > way of the vibrancy and responsiveness of our curriculum.

    -   Are there periods without trainings? Is there an easy to view
        > calendar of dates of all trainings?

-   Elections: Kelly, Mark

    -   Mark is also working on this for Library Carpentries right now.

    -   Odd numbered committee - 7 or 9 that serve 3 year terms. A year
        > to get up to speed, a year to find a project to work on, third
        > year you are in charge of the group and you can train a
        > replacement. 9 members means you can elect 3 per year. Three
        > year cycle.

    -   Partnership with executive committee.

    -   Chair was voted on by committee after the election. Second or
        > third year member. Leads to consistency in the group.

    -   Always thinking about your successor for consistency and
        > sustainability.

    -   Who will be non-voting members? Core team, but will there also
        > be someone from the executive council or other teams?

    -   Chair of subcommittees (e.g., The Trainers Leadership group)
        > could have an obligation to attend executive council meetings
        > to provide an update. Feedback from the executive council is
        > important.

-   Online Training/Discourse: Karen, Arin, Jessica

    -   We are thinking about whether to open discourse to the public.
        > We will need some active moderation if we decide to open
        > discourse up to the public.

    -   Communication across The Carpentries is quite fragmented
        > (github, topicbox, discourse, slack, etc.). It would be good
        > to have one place to summarize and streamline the
        > conversations happening in the community.

    -   At least a little fragmentation may be inevitable. Everyone has
        > their preferred method of communication and we may not want to
        > alienate people.

> ['Bonus
> module']()

-   Feedback

-   Pilot: possibly June 25 and//or 29

-   Administration & unknowns

-   We would appreciate feedback from trainers on the Bonus Module.

-   Karen will be scheduling pilots soon and will be sending them to the
    > trainers. Maybe June 25 or 29? Around the same time we usually do
    > our meetings. Karen will be recruiting a co-host.

Update on data availability for Trainers - we are working on getting
some data for trainers

May 11 2020 - (reboot)
======================

Attending:

-   Sarah Brown, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA

<!-- -->

-   Arindam (Arin) Basu, University of Canterbury, Christchurch

-   Brian Ballsun-Stanton (Macquarie Uni, Sydney, Australia)

<!-- -->

-   Mark Laufersweiler (University of Oklahoma Norman, OK via Houston,
    > TX)

-   Danielle Quinn (Newfoundland, Canada)

-   Jessica Upani (University of Namibia, Namibia)

-   Kelly Barnes, The Carpentries, Toronto, ON, Canada

-   Tim Dennis, UCLA, USA

-   Karen Word, The Carpentries, Davis CA

Notes:

-   Notetaking role to rotate (yay)

-   Intention to reboot group

    -   Place to move forward from. New plans/roles

    -   Challenge: how to recognise effort (especially in context with
        > trainer agreement)

        -   Fair/achievable. Workload and job?

-   Problems with prior iteration:

    -   Building and sailing the boat at the same time.

        -   Intention: this should be a formal body, producing
            > governance for the carpentries

        -   It will take *some time*.

        -   Need: The carpentries needs trainers to help and guide
            > training.

            -   Raise issues,

            -   inform policies

            -   develop procedures

            -   be an advisory group

-   Vision:

    -   Instantiate trainers leadership group as advisory council.
        > Resolve things which haven\'t quite gotten to a decision
        > point. Break down to smaller [email removed] level.

    -   Start figuring out how a formal leadership group would look
        > like.

        -   Not focus of group

        -   Not very exciting (not priority?)

-   Role proposals:

    -   (as per agenda)

    -   Meeting chair not filled. Karen by default

    -   Discourse Moderator/community building for Jessica

    -   DQ, BBS like the roles

-   Timing: Monthly?

-   Introducing Kelly Barnes

    -   KW: Vision for core team role, organising meetings. Support on
        > request. Able to do labourious tasks.

    -   KW has drafted/copied governance documentation

    -   KW and KB to manage other carpentries folks attending

-   To discuss:

    -   Trainer agreement and privs

        -   Not doing good job of recognising/rewarding effort in good
            > way

        -   Will check in same time this year to see how it worked for
            > folks

    -   Membership contracts

        -   How are people formally recognised/compensated for work

        -   BBS thought: How do workplaces value our work with the
            > carpentries? How do we signal that to them?

    -   How to deal with special agreements with trainers?

    -   Special training events?

    -   Bonus modules

-   Recommendations around online training

    -   So many options for making trainings work

    -   Need to keep having conversation

    -   Helping to make final decisions on things that feel solid

-   Stuff to discuss:

    -   How to find a single meeting that addresses all time zones?

    -   Focus only on one side of the world per DST?

-   SB: Bonus modules question

    -   How do we give trainers credit for those?

    -   Where do these modules come from?

        -   KW: To lead development of modules

        -   Will then open to community maintenance

    -   Understanding:

        -   an \"episode\" in the instructor training that isn\'t
            > expected to be run during nominal training

        -   1-3 hour \"continuing professional education\" for current
            > instructors

    -   2 planned

        -   How to teach online workshop

        -   How to respond to the code of conduct - module

        -   Refresher type things

    -   DQ: Will this be required?

        -   KW: Before we require it, we need to know that we can teach
            > it at appropriate frequency

    -   BBS: Suggests: \"Continuing professional education\" as
        > professional trapping (with nod towards above of being able to
        > deliver)

        -   AB: \"Keep trainers in "good" standing, CPE might be a good
            > idea, good thinking there, Brian\"

    -   There will be flow between instructor training and these
        > modules, reduce load on the overstuffed 2 days

        -   DQ: These modules can take the place of some of the heavier
            > stuff in instructor training.

-   AB: What happens if trainers do not follow the recommended
    > participation?

    -   What mechanisms exist to bring them back active?

    -   KW: This is the intention of the trainer agreement

        -   Response required to agreement (shed 3 inactive people)

        -   Plan for this year: same thing again, but hold people to
            > their word. We have better data.

        -   \"That didn\'t really work out\" (for people not holding to
            > their agreement)

        -   Discourse might be good opportunity for more participation.

        -   We still are struggling to make sure our 2 day workshops are
            > covered

-   ML: People step away for various reasons

    -   You don\'t stop being a trainer because you can\'t participate

    -   Important to preserve expertise

    -   Challenge with forcing people to articulate: \"If I can\'t be
        > in, I\'m out\"

    -   Objective for re-onboarding

        -   Take some CPE, present that as route to active

    -   Important to not say to people \"you\'re dropped\"

    -   AB: Create mechanism to ease people *back* in.

        -   Make sure stocktake for 2020 keeps in mind how insane 2020
            > has been

    -   KW:https://docs.carpentries.org/topic\_folders/instructor\_training/duties\_agreement.html?highlight=inactive\#trainer-alumni-status

        -   There exist multiple paths currently for \"reinstatement\"
            > of being a trainer

        -   Do we need to have more levels of participation?

-   DQ: Important to be able to understand status

    -   We need to be able to see where we stand in relation to trainer
        > agreement

    -   BBS: +1! (Important to be able to see state in AMY)

    -   Place to see where we\'ve been inactive. No way to figure out
        > timing, mechanisms of reactivation.

    -   ML: And it would help me when reporting back to my boss in my
        > annual review since it is part of the job description.

        -   Part of our KPI: We\'ve declared X amount of time. Judged on
            > impact outside of community

        -   Important that AMY has an \"impact log\" (sat on this
            > committee, this task force) for people who have this as
            > part of their job.

        -   +1 from TD, BBS

-   Tasks:

    -   Figure out next time slot

        -   A whenisgood for a month out

            -   +1: SB, AB

        -   ML: Stick to that model for the duration of the crisis

            -   +1: BBS

-   Business for next meeting:

    -   KW will contact TD, SB

    -   BBS and DQ to talk about regional concerns

    -   AB, JU, KW to discuss discourse moderation

    -   Think about al-a-carte training in context of sub-group
        > discussions

-   Other business

    -   KW: No formal signoff on minutes. This google doc is fine

    -   ML: proposes adopting rules of order

Agenda:

-   Purpose of meetings: advisory role -\> governance

-   Beyond meetings: individual & team leadership

    -   Curriculum: Karen w/ Tim, Sarah (& sometimes Christina?)

    -   Community meetings: Christina (w/ Laura)

    -   Regional community-building/knowledge-sharing: Danielle & Brian
        > (w/Fotis?)

    -   Online Training: Arin, Jessica?x

    -   Elections: Mark

    -   Chairing these meetings:

-   Core Team role:

    -   Organizing meetings?

    -   Supporting work as instructed (e.g. drafting documentation)

    -   Reporting/requesting advice re ongoing work

    -   Recruiting relevant CT members as needed to address interests
        > (e.g. membership)

-   Topics to address (but not all at once!):

    -   Trainer agreements and privileges

        -   How can we recognize and reward Trainer effort equitably?

        -   What should be required to maintain active status?

        -   How should the new 'bonus modules' for continuing
            > instructors fit in to our expectations?

        -   How should leadership service fit in?

        -   (How) should 'a-la-carte' scholarship training events fit
            > in?

    -   Online training.

        -   When should new ideas or concerns lead to changes in our
            > recommendations or administrative policies?

    -   Governance and elections.

        -   How frequently should elections be held?

        -   How should governance be formally
            > [structured]()?

-   Now:

    -   How frequently should this group meet?

    -   Plans between now and next meeting

    -   Agenda for next meeting

        -   Reports on outside work

        -   Discussion topic

January 29 2020
===============

-   Meeting 2

    -   Attending: Brian Ballsun-Stanton (BBS), Tim Dennis (TD)

-   Agenda

    -   Not set. Quorum not filled

-   Minutes

    -   We determined that we need agendas and minutes more clearly, so
        > empty meetings do not occur

    -   TD declined Chair nomination from BBS.

    -   BBS declined Chair nomination from TD

    -   Meeting adjourned at 10:20 Sydney time.

-   Action items:

    -   Set up a slack channel (BBS)

        -   BBS has tried to summarise this document\'s open questions
            > in slack.

January 15 2020
===============

[Zoom link]()

**Attending:**

-   Meeting 1

    -   Rayna

    -   Sarah

    -   Danielle

    -   Fotis

    -   Mark

-   Meeting 2

    -   

**Agenda:**

-   establishing a governance structure and an elections protocol

-   facilitating asynchronous participation within and beyond the
    > leadership group.

**Notes:**

Establish how is going to do what / how is this going to proceed from
here.

What is the top1 priority to aim for now:

Karen: Setting up a structure, so that in \~6 months to have an election

Rayna: Can we establish who does what (also what types of "internal"
groups do we need, and what are the expectations of each of these
roles). In addition to Chair / Co-chair / Secretary, also pick up the
hosts for each of the two meetings.

We still don't have a clear idea on who will be attending which call.

Rayna: Why are you here?

*Mark*: Due to family issues, I cannot be as active in my Trainer role.
So I hope that this will be a way to move forward to evolve my role
(helper -\> Instructor -\> Trainer -\> ??what?)

*Daniele*: Always interested in building a community aspect. As Mark
said, it feels as the next step within the Carpentries. Hopefully help
(if not everywhere, at least in Canada / East Canada), build a community
/ connections across cities.

*Sarah*: Building a local community is not as easy (as viewed from the
current academic status - moving a lot), so this might be a most
productive approach. The Carpentries community is very transparent - the
Trainers group is the least transparent in comparison. Interested in
improving this.

Mark: That is actually an issue that I have with the grad student/post
doc folks that OU include as part of our instructor training cohort. How
to help them for when they leave to stay connected.

Fotis: creating community, time limited, natural progression from
reviewing applications, leadership role with broader collaborations

Proposal: For the next meeting Daniele hosts / Sarah keeps notes -\>
Next meeting roles are moved along (Sarah hosts -\> another person keeps
notes), etc

What structure do you like / propose we adopt for this Leadership

Mark: I've been in a lot of boards so far. The most memorable; the
members of the user-committee were nominated by the executive- committee
because they know that they had produced stuff. Nominations will be
merit-based, focused on what the candidates offered to the community.
First set of candidates offered by the users (nomination), set reviewed
by the executive-committee (for merit), executive-committee has the
final vote.

Within the committee, designate roles (like note-taker) in advance with
a replacement, and always rotate (so that everyone can participate).

Sarah: Rotating roles is an excellent idea (or a person that only
participates always for notes, and has no other role). People in the
board where both voted / nominated / assigned, but they also had the
option of creating sub-committees (that they had to be voted/accepted by
the main board though). Also, make absolutely sure that, before having
an election, profiles of nominations are easily available, findable and
accessible.

Rayna: The first choice now had also a geographic distribution aspect in
mind. How do we actively solicit people that we know they are good fit
for the particular tasks we have in mind.

Sarah: A mixture of functionaly and geographical representations.

Fotis: if the leadership group lacks geographic representation, would be
important to set up a mechanisms where the expectations of the roles ar
clearly stated and transparancy is key. Try something, elect people that
we think are appropriate, and see how it evolves

Daniele: Identifying the big roles (curriculum development, community
management), start there, put people to this place (election /
assignment / etc), in 6 months we evaluate (we check whether
subcommittees have been evolved or if the overall process worked), and
reassess on how to proceed. Not one person thinking of all the details,
and each person has a one thing they need to focus on. They can be
leading a particular group -\> report back (plus have more targeted
meetings :) )

Fotis: There are 70 ish trainers. But only about 10 show up to each
call. Y

Rayna: A key point is to make sure that we have a sustainable process
for the next 5 years, without burnout. Think of ways that other people
can contribute in this role (not directly tied to the 'usual" trainer
tasks, but getting slowly involved in the Leadership part)

Sarah: It would be ideal if we are able to put in place an informal /
loose structure - during the meeting be able to modify/adapt
accordingly. Roles could be distinct, but some responsibilities must be
shared (so that everyone has a point in this)

Rayna: Plus redundancy is gold. :)

Mark: 80 / 20 - some people will step up and do most of the work / there
will probably be a group of people that might not be as active. Also,
introduce the concept of "shadow" roles / scouts - one of your tasks
should be finding your successor after your "term" ends. This will
facilitate sustainability as well.

Danielle: You have to give people the opportunity to get in and level
up. Mixture of both ongoing roles and short term projects

You need structure, and gaps so that people can bring something to the
table.

For our next call: have a list of proposed structures, that we can
decide / refine and vote on to select some options (top 2 or 3) then
report to the Executive Committee..

December 18 2019
================

[Zoom link]()

**Attending:**

-   Meeting 1

    -   Karen Word

    -   Rayna Harris

    -   Fotis Psomopoulos

    -   Caroline Ajilogba

    -   Mark Laufersweiler

    -   Sarah Brown

    -   Tim Dennis

-   Meeting 2

    -   Karen Word

    -   Laura Acion

    -   Brian Ballsun-Stanton

    -   Murray Cadzow

    -   Danielle Quinn

Notetaking:

-   Meeting 1: Sarah

-   Meeting 2: Brian

Leading: Karen

**Agenda:**

Introductions

Read [Brainstorm document
here]()

Discuss (initial) goals:

-   Elections

-   Role definitions

-   Coherent structure to support cross-time-zone collaboration

Discuss meetings format and communication strategy!

-   Ideas to consider:

    -   Split group into 2 themed meetings: curriculum & community

    -   Robust asynchronous communication should allow all to
        > participate in both areas, may need a leader to facilitate
        > this conversation

    -   Alternate meeting times to favor different time zones (vs more
        > meetings in a single week)

Discuss interest in roles.

Action items:

-   Karen will set up poll and leave it open through January

Summary:

Homework: Election process brainstorm.

Notes from Meeting 2:
=====================

Introductions

Attending: Karen, Laura, Murray, Brian, Danielle

Read [Brainstorm document
here]()

Discuss (initial) goals:

-   Elections

-   Role definitions

-   Coherent structure to support cross-time-zone collaboration

Discuss meetings format and communication strategy!

-   Ideas to consider:

    -   Split group into 2 themed meetings: curriculum & community

    -   Robust asynchronous communication should allow all to
        > participate in both areas, may need a leader to facilitate
        > this conversation

    -   Alternate meeting times to favor different time zones (vs more
        > meetings in a single week)

#### Minutes:

-   KW Intentions:

    -   Build community, leadership group. Need for coherent leadership
        > of group. Instructor training curriculum maintnence serving as
        > de facto leadership, policy-making, discussion \... Community
        > needs to have more control, avoid top-down imposition due to
        > increase in staffing loads. Doing work involved in
        > maintenance, but also making sure we have people who are
        > actively engaged.

-   LA This group needed. How many carpentries staff in "charge?"
    > Feeling that KW is the one leading from staff side.

-   KW: Will be super helpful having two staff.

    -   Most important role staff can play is to handle
        > gritty-no-one-wants-to-do work.

    -   Support trainers

    -   Want to make sure that community does not have staff as critical
        > linchpin because long term funding uncertain.

-   LA: Really like the document proposal.

    -   Really like public rubric for prospective trainers

-   BBS: Local hubs seems to be missing from the roles. Darya and Brian
    > made a point of connecting with other Trainers when they were in
    > town \-- having people to take leadership in this way is really
    > useful

-   LA: How does the general regional hub-community building work in the
    > Carpentries

-   BBS: AU/NZ have coordinators. Some trickiness

-   MC: NZ Megan is the community-hub. At a national level, we have a
    > good overview of what institutions need trainers, and the admin
    > side gets tacked on. Going forward, it's important to have the
    > regional people involved in the leadership side of things.
    > Regional coordinator has a much better idea of what's going on
    > across the community than what the trainers do.

-   KW: Trainers liason with regional coordinators as a function of
    > their role. Is there a need for social connective tissue more
    > generally? Finding ways to create/cultivate relationships within
    > the trainers community, paying attention and capitalising on
    > opportunities.

-   BBS: Proposal to have regional coordinators part of this group, to
    > form cadre of regional hub-trainer-folk and who have their finger
    > on the pulse of local community already.

    -   LA: +1 to inviting the regional coordinators - from the regions
        > that have them :-)

    -   MC: In a previous meeting I floated this idea too and was ok\'d

-   KW: We need to talk about what this group needs to do first. 3-6
    > months, as function of difficulty of elections process. Main
    > strategy is to figure out elections and elections process.

    -   BBS: Proposal to experiment with quadratic voting for elections.
        > [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratic\_voting]()

-   KW: Need to pilot these roles to extent people are interested in.
    > Model how this group will function in broader ways.
    > Clear/important to get better at cross-timezone collab. Avenues
    > for asynchronous participation.

-   KW: What are objectives for next meeting?

    -   Split into themed meetings: Curriculum/community

    -   Important we are focused on election process. Common meeting
        > needed.

    -   Need to promote async leadership

        -   BBS Suggestion: this seems like an opportunity for a
            > google-wave like document, to build consensus.

        -   KW: Possible tool, discourse. Ask people to post questions
            > there

        -   BBS: Confused at what level of interaction is needed

    -   KW: Start with github issues, see how dysfunctional it gets. See
        > what problems we need to solve with another tool.

-   KW: Need to plan Jan meeting timing/structure.

-   LA: How many people?

    -   KW: Lots have stepped up. Maybe we need subcommittees.

-   BBS: What actionables do we have for next month?

-   KW: I was hoping that everyone would come with an idea of some kind
    > about how elections should work, a list of
    > examples/mechanisms/technical implementations. Next meeting, other
    > spaces for action will become more visible.

-   BBS to KW: **Action item**, make a repo for this. Make a deadline a
    > week ahead of time for everyone participating to document how a
    > community they are involved in handles elections/policy, so that
    > everyone involved can thumbs up or thumbs down or other emoji vote
    > on everyone's case study. Posting a case study can also serve as
    > useful evidence of participation.

-   LA: Do we have any documentation on how the carpentries already
    > handles this subject?

-   KW: Beyond the elections process, there is the cycle and policies
    > around the election that are needed for case studies. Term limits?
    > Increases social connectivity of community. **Action item** We
    > need policies, case studies posted for community governance to
    > help intentionally shape this group.

-   DQ: Very important to have remote representation/connection. +1 from
    > BBS

Notes from Meeting 1 - 2019:
============================

Read [Brainstorm document
here]()

Discuss (initial) goals:

-   *both short term reduce the load and work toward a longer term plan
    > for a more sustainable solution than asking people who tend to
    > volunteer a lot *

-   Elections

    -   This is the product of this group that was formed by invitation

    -   Community buy in is important, so the goal is to first determine
        > how to organize the election

    -   This group's tenure can end when an election procedure is
        > complete, expected in the 3-6 month time frame

-   This group may serve like a pilot of a more distributed leadership
    > structure

-   Role definitions

-   Coherent structure to support cross-time-zone collaboration

    -   Meta goal

    -   Both a challenge within leadership and whole trainer group

-   What's the goal in the next 4-5 weeks?

    -   Eg define roles?

    -   Nominate people?

    -   Set role expectations?

    -   A: in addition to planning the structure for the longer term, to
        > pilot what it's like to have more than 3 people

    -   A: balancing personal ownership & leadership vs collaborative
        > work

-   How will this interact with the staff openings?

    -   The staff hiring is important part of why this needs to happen
        > now

        -   More staff increases risk of top-down

    -   This group will need to provide governance

        -   Staff can sy no

        -   But primarily the community provides governance and
            > direction

        -   Staff is supposed to do as much of the dirty work as
            > possible, enabling

-   

Discuss meetings format and communication strategy! - today's goal is to
determine how the rest of the meetings will work

-   Ideas to consider:

    -   Split group into 2 themed meetings: curriculum & community

        -   Eg poll for time based on primary interest

        -   Everyone is invited to both

    -   Robust asynchronous communication should allow all to
        > participate in both areas, may need a leader to facilitate
        > this conversation

    -   Alternate meeting times to favor different time zones (vs more
        > meetings in a single week)

        -   This week is two meetings on the same topic, but could
            > alternate instead

    -   Additional division within curriculum and community: technical
        > and admin issues

    -   Open a poll now and then let poeple respond into January

Discuss interest in roles.

-   Can the current group provide information on how much time different
    > tasks take in order to group tasks into reasonable roles

    -   Some zero due to neglect

    -   -   

-   Goal is to not claim because 2 meetings and some cannot attend, but
    > some express interest

    -   Maybe express "I could do"

    -   Via commenting

-   

Examples to model after:

-   [RDA]()?

    -   Produces standards

    -   A technical advisory board that rotates 2-3 years

    -   Cross-continent representation

    -   Prevent burnout,

    -   time-limited roles

    -   Mandatory breaks

-   In meteorology,

    -   similar triad

        -   Staff

        -   Users

        -   Policy

    -   2 term limit within a role, can shift to a different rolke

        -   Typical: eg 1 term on user, one on policy, break

    -   Could go on to project work later or within

### Roles

-   Curriculum maintenance

    -   GitHub triage: tagging, assigning and providing a preliminary
        > response to new PRs and issues

        -   Github triage is usually low hours,

            -   important on first PRs especially

            -   Tagging others makes a big difference

            -   Highlighting important issues for quick attention

    -   Documentation maintenance: taking leadership to ensure that
        > Carpentries documentation (i.e. website, Handbook, Etherpads,
        > etc) are kept up to date as changes occur - TimD

        -   Documentation maintenance

            -   Each change in curriculum causes changes in other places

            -   Eg Etherpad

            -   Handbook

        -   Proposal: short term, document some of this into a checklist
            > for updates?

    -   Regular review of the instructor training material based on new
        > research or trainer/participant feedback.

    -   Liaison to another Carpentries community (i.e. Maintainers, EC,
        > Instructor Development, CoCc, Champions)

        -   Both lists,

        -   Lots of PRs open that group is stuck on, known to follow up
            > on with another group (e.g. Code of Conduct, Maintainers)

        -   

    -   Suggestion: Infrastructure and sysadmin to support technology
        > this community needs - BBS +1 from KW

-   Community management & connectivity

    -   Liaison to another Carpentries community (Maintainers, EC,
        > Instructor Development, CoCc, Champions, lesson
        > infrastructure, lesson programs)

        -   Eg Planning joint meetings

        -   Increasing crosstalk

        -   Eg dual membership

    -   Instructor development liaison may be a big role if we take on
        > significant outreach

        -   Formal target

        -   Refreshers

        -   Continuing education

        -   Primary in IDC, but trainers will be involved, esp dev

        -   Will be in Karen's job

    -   Identifying topics of interest to Trainers and incorporating in
        > monthly trainer meetings or as ad-hoc development sessions.

        -   Prepare, frame, invite,

        -   Triage topics

    -   Planning monthly Trainer meetings, Hosting or taking notes at
        > Trainer meetings, sending reminders, posting minutes on
        > Github, sending follow-up emails with distilled notes or
        > action items

        -   Eg running 6 am meeting for Karen is tough

        -   Assign notetaker

        -   Facilitate in meeting

        -   More faces running the show

    -   Reviewing applications for Open Instructor Training and Trainer
        > Training

        -   Recently completed, it helps a lot

        -   

    -   Setting up and maintaining a leadership structure and
        > voting/election process

        -   First priority

    -   Overseeing and encouraging asynchronous participation.

        -   Important to make sure that the e-mail goes out

        -   Incorporate comments from others,, etc

        -   "If you didn't make the meeting, do x"

        -   Define x, above

    -   Structuring community discussion and approval of policy changes
        > (e.g. Trainer Agreement, Trainer application revisions)

    -   Organizing local, regional, or lesson-program specific hubs
        > within (and beyond?) the Trainer community / liason with
        > regional coordinators / social connective tissue more broadly

**Homework: **

-   Election

    -   Research other structures

        -   Unidata (NSF program out of UCAR/NCAR)

        -   https://www.unidata.ucar.edu/community/index.html\#governance

    -   What questions do we need to consider

    -   Will be the primary focus of the next meeting

-   Fill in poll for next meeting
