# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-04-13 20:30 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Karen, Mark, Sarah, Bonny, Jeff (first 30)
Apologies: Pao, Jeff (last 30)
Absent:

### Agenda
1. Roles: Chair and Secretary
    - We still only have 4 people today. Is it ok to vote?
    - Karen: discussed at last meeting, no objections noted.
    - Mark: willing to serve as Chair. 
    - Jeff: second!
    - Chair = Mark Mark: yes, Jeff: yes, Bonny: yes, Sarah, yes Unanimous among 
    all present.
    - Secretary = Jeff Mark: yes, Jeff: yes, Bonny, yes, Sarah yes.
    - Sarah and Mark will meet, Karen will visit if feasible/desirable
2. Schedule check-in
    - How does second Wednesday (UTC) and third Wednesday (UTC) (backup) work?
    - backup meetings have been used 2-3 times in the past, occasionally 
    instead of other meetings. 
    - Jeff: This meeting and first May meeting will have a meeting right after. 
    After that times work fine.
    - Mark and Bonny and Sarah no conflicts
3. Meeting conventions
    - Karen: Is there a hand-raising procedure for these Leadership meeting?
    - Mark: prefer zoom hand raising, hard to see hands in the chat.
    - Sarah: plan for chair to call on people?
    - Jeff: defer to Mark.
    - Bonny: agree, if it is convenient for Mark we should use that.
    - Sarah: does this need to be a rule?
    - Mark: no, should be flexible for future groups.
    - Sarah: remember to tell Pao.
4. Core Team updates & requests:
    - Blog post 
        - Sarah is behind on EC report, should be able to do in less than a 
        week.
    - [Certification renewal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
        - Core Team wants to try automating some of the renewal process
        - Karen: There's a little delay on implementing this
        - Sarah: How much of a delay are we OK with?
        - Mark: Could we use Karen's version with some info about coming 
        automation?
        - Karen: Maneesha might be able to do this next week
        - Sarah: How soon does Carpentries need to know how much Trainer 
        Training is needed?
        - Karen: Not in the next month, but not much beyond that
        - Jeff: give it a month?
        - Sarah, Mark, Bonny ok with that plan.
        - Sarah: would like to put a note in the issue for transparency.
        - Karen will add that note
    - [Open Instructor Training proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/172)
        - Sarah: Is the rubric public?
        - Karen: It's in the issue (but not called a "rubric")
        - Likes: Mark, Jeff, Bonny, Sarah.
        - Approved
    - Karen's role & end of CZI grant
        - Karen: Carpentries has CZI grant that ends in November 2022
            - this grant transitioned Director of Instructor training from part 
            to full time
            - allowed hiring Deputy Director of Instructor Training
            - this funding has provided a lot of dedicated role to IT without 
            focus on what's essential
            - with transition to general funding, there will be more focus
            - Karen's planning for the rest of the year is sustainability 
            focused 
            - Possibly carving out smaller roles that can be picked up by 
            trainers outside of Core team 
        - Leadership support
            - identifying essential & nonessential
        - Community support
            - Trainer meeting host signups?
            - Meeting schedule & reminder automation
            - Curriculum maintenance
        - Bonny: Will the Carpentries be applying for more grants?
        - Karen: yes, but things will still be different. This grant was quite 
        unique, and we hope to have less reliance on grants and more general 
        funding in the future.
        Sarah: Would like a list of all the things that Karen does, to get a 
        sense of what we need to do to help make decisions, strategize, change 
        the form of. What has been very clear from the community is that things 
        need to be easy and time-bounded. 
        Karen: yes, I can create a list, will present next time.
5. [EC report](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/168)
    - Sarah: i am behind
6. [Quorum clarification](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/164)
    - This one has to be moved up to a time when Jeff can be here next time. 
    Proposal author is not present.
7. [Other issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues)
