# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-08-18 20:00 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

## August 18, 2022
Attending: Mark, Jeff, Pao, Karen
Apologies: Sarah
Absent: Bonny

September meeting dates
1. Core Team Updates
    - Handbooks; progress a little stalled based on CarpentryCon
        - Core team is working on this and will have something early next year
        - Trainers Leadership handbook doesn't have a draft, but some notes 
        started
        - Leadership template/draft thing: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XAZKSM9xVXU1PB8EokfmZWKB8r8-_0KqilM7VIb2A48/edit?usp=sharing 
        - Will include Trainers handbook; have a draft, mostly content from 
        current handbook
        - Trainers template/draft thing: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XN7cWRNjeu5tgWPxUlSz611RXi6bcGjkkUMUDu7iwaw/edit?usp=sharing 
    - Certification Renewal
        - Out of a total of 111 trainers
        - Inactivated = changed to alumni status
        - 9 inactivated for non-response
        - 3 inactivated by request
        - 5 extensions to Sept 1 for non-response (have been active)
        - 4 extensions for not scheduling a meeting after form submission
        - Future thoughts
            - Timeline should include deadlines for response to form 
            submissions
            - Form should directly ask (checkboxes?) about participation in 
            local/regional communities, including things like African community 
            calls, service as an Instructor, mentorship of Instructors, service 
            on Core Team
            - Meetings with Karen could use some prescribed goals (e.g. check 
              in on curriculum updates, discuss barriers to participation, 
              discuss alternatives to achieve goals of requirements)
            - Mark: Could there be a little blog post about this to communicate 
            how it went?
            - Karen: Good idea. I can also reach out to Trainers community 
            about this.
    - [Checkout Project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1H780MordN_Ej_2N7DLhcv44Sh5ZD6riURhGZwWFHsvk/edit?usp=sharing)
        - Involvement planning:
            - Will share development/thought steps for input with deadlines
            - Participation will be optional
            - Will share final recommendations for approval by full Trainers 
            Leadership Committee
            - Are there other steps/checkpoints that Leadership would like to 
            specifically approve?
2. Alternative metrics for automatic Trainer renewal. Relates to [Implementation proposal for Certification Renewal approved Proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
    - Mark: What other things can be counted towards renewal?
    - Jeff: What other data do the Carpentries have easily available?
    - Karen: Also need to address the term "automatic"; other than Core team
    - Mark: maybe locally-coordinated meetings with other Trainers can 
    substitute for attendance at the main monthly Trainer meetings
    - Could add more checkboxes for community-level involvement
    - Mark: can help increase response rate, with ease of filling it out
    - Mark: is there a process for folks who want to move from alumni status to 
    active?
    - Karen: they do need to observe a training event if it has been more than 
    a year, but no formal partnering with an active Trainer; we also don't have 
    a way to connect new Trainers with experienced Trainers
    - Karen: any places you would like to draw lines, or would be uncomfortable 
    approving people?
    - Jeff: would be wary of equivalent activities with zero training events 
    and zero demos. 
    - Mark: would like to see active participation in at least 1-2 community 
    meetings. Important to connect with fellow Trainers outside of just running 
    a workshop. Sometimes they can't come because of time, though. For fully 
    automatic renewal would like to keep this a requirement.
3. [Trainer meetings](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/1)
    - Would be good to encourage more community proposals for meeting topics
    - [Instructions to propose a topic](https://codimd.carpentries.org/2qK8E31PRsO--EigqR0L8w?both) 
    need updating and should be copied to top of [Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/trainers)
    - We don't currently have a means of volunteering to host a meeting. Would 
    be good to have a way to do this, maybe can announce opportunity at start 
    of meetings and in reminders
4. Approved proposals updates
    - [Use consistent naming for Trainers Leadership Committee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/193)
        - Jeff: Plan to update relevant files on 19 August
    - [Develop "Trainer Meeting Guide"](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
        - Mark: We can all look at this and self-assign sections 
        asynchronously?
        - Karen: This should be part of the (soon-to-be Trainers) Handbook, in 
        the step-by-step guide section. Not much content there yet. I could 
        start working on content and have you all flush it out.
        - Mark: That sounds good. We can add more details after Karen gets 
        started, based on the points listed in the issue on GitHub [201](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
