# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-07-22 20:30 UTC
Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Jeff, Sarah, Pao, Mark, Bonny, Kelly
Apologies: Karen

Note: August meeting during CarpentryCon

* Core Team Updates
    * Certification renewal (review later in meeting)
    * Handbook(s!)
        * Handbook is going to be broken into multiple, smaller handbooks, 
        including:
        * Trainers
            * Sarah: How will this overlap with the Trainer Guide in the 
            Curriculum repo?
            * Kelly: Right now, it just has the content from the Handbook
        * Trainers Leadership
            * Mark: What would be in this handbook? Is Trainers Leadership repo 
            info enough?
            * Kelly: Maybe, we are still looking at this
        * Instructor Training Curriculum Maintainers? (may fold into 
        Maintainers Handbook)
* Review of **Trainer certification applications**
    * Mark: I felt from some of the answers, there was a bit of a feeling from 
    people that it should be entitled to keep it as a status symbol. I was 
    thinking we want to get away from this and it should just be about being up 
    to date. We should think about the wording for next year to avoid the 
    stigma
    * Kelly: Updating AMY to create separate fields for badges and roles. 
    Badges are "permanent", but roles can be updated based on participation.
    * Sarah: How clear was it to people that this is a renewal process and it 
    is automatic or there is an extra step? How do we communicate that?
    * Jeff: In the past, whether an institution had a trainer or not would 
    influence their status. 
    * Kelly: Some memberships _do_ get a discount for having a trainer. Will 
    need to have a conversation with Membership Committee about what standards 
    (in terms of Trainer participation) we require for membership discounts.
    * Renewal clear group: 
        * Sarah: There were 1 or 2 people that did 0 Trainer meetings. If they 
        haven't gone to any Trainer meetings, maybe a quick meeting with Karen 
        is a good idea. Maybe recommended but not required? 
        * Jeff: Some have a standing conflict, so it may not be necessary for 
        them to meet with Karen. 
        * Mark: Pretty much anyone who had 2 Instructor Training events, came 
        through as dark green. So we could consider having this as an 
        additional criteria.
        * Sarah: I think we asked them to fill out the form so they we knew 
        about the timezone and other things. 
    * Meeting - no review required: we agree with this decision
    * Recommended meeting with Karen: we agree with this decision
    * Those forms that came in after Karen left: Recommend meeting but Karen 
    has the final decision. 
    * Renewal Recommended: Can we pair people up who have not taught any events 
    in the last year up with experienced Trainers? Treat them like new Trainers
    * Sarah: this process is to ensure consistency in the Training.
    * Mark: Consider making Core Team and EC automatic renewals
    * Sarah: I want to note that we mentioned a couple of people that we want 
    to look at again next year. Can the core team make sure there is 
    infrastructure to link these?
    * Non-response list: We have provided recommendations. We should renew if 
    they complete the form. But only if they complete the form, because we need 
    Trainers to be responsive to us for things like quorum for elections.
    * Leaving list of equivalent activities to next time
* Possible change of Trainers Leadership Committee meeting time/day
    * Sarah is unavailable at this time on Monday and Wednesday (in the US).
    * Jeff, Pao, and Bonny are ok +-1 day
    * Also move it 30 minutes earlier
    * Need to check with Karen on final selection; Thursday at 1pm Pacific time 
    looks good
* Proposals needing final approval 
    * [DRAFT: revise trainer community responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184)
        * Not ready for approval yet
        * Sarah will have this ready for the next meeting.
    * [Use consistent naming for Trainers Leadership Committee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/193)
        * Mark, Pao, and Sarah like this proposal
        * Jeff will send out a reminder later in the week. Bonny, please take a 
        look at it and let us know if you like it, can live with it, or don't 
        like it. 
    * [Develop "Trainer Meeting Guide"](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
        * Proposal for a process to create a guide for how we run Trainer 
        meetings
        * Jeff: I like the idea, but any sense of the effort required for this?
        * Sarah: Very good question. I don't have a good sense yet. 
        * Jeff: We can scope it when the work gets started 
        * Like from Jeff and a like from Bonny. Mark and Pao will review after 
        the meeting.
* Approved proposals updates
    * [Implementation proposal for Certification Renewal approved Proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
        * Need to add alternative criteria for renewal before closing
    * [Use a Table-style Project on this repo for trainer meeting topic assignment](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/181)
        * Closed, but for reference the Table can be viewed [here](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2)
