# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-01-17 00:00UTC

**Present:*- Amanda Charbonneau, Sarah Brown, Jeff Oliver, Karen Word, Mark 
Crowe
Regrets: Arin Basu

1. Core Team updates
    - Trainers Leadership elections
        - Currently have 1 new applicant; interest from a second but concern 
        about deadline
            - Had some other interest, but potential conflicts of interest
        - Suggest extending deadline through Feb 1, using Feb 3 meeting for 
        elections instead
            - Would reschedule next two Trainers meetings, given the change
            - Sarah: Makes sense, although would need to amend timelines
            - Amanda, Jeff, Mark agree
            - Karen will extend deadline after this meeting
    - Certification renewal
        - (part of same ballot as Trainers Leadership)
        - Certification renewal proposal is an [issue in Trainers repo](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/143). 
        Existing Trainer Agreement is in Handbook. At some point we should 
        consider submitting documentation to the Handbook (informing the EC, 
          but not waiting for them to suggest this)
            - Karen: Should decide how we want to do this
            - Sarah: Would like to minimize redundancy; the certification 
            should be in Trainers repository
            - Karen: Could just link from the Handbook to repository
            - Mark: Seems like a link will work
            - Sarah: No more changes are being made right?
            - Karen: Right
            - Amanda: we can use lock conversation
            - Action item: Karen to lock it with a comment
    - Trainers Leadership retention policy
        - Suggest amending governance document to allow current members to stay 
        for 2nd year without standing for election. [Procedure](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md) 
        is probably too hefty to include in current election, even with 
        extension? Or can "dedicated meeting" be stretched?
            - Karen: Wouldn't necessarily be a 2-year commitment, but would 
            allow people could continue if they want to.
            - Karen: Is it practical to do this now?
            - Mark: Kind of irrelevant at this stage, right
            - Karen: Yes, but looking forward to this
            - Sarah: But because it would take all Trainers to vote on, would 
            be nice to include in this election (if we wanted). We thought 
            about this before, but couldn't settle on language
            - Amanda: More or less how Congress works; did Carpentries 
            Executive Council approve this? If not, we can still change it
            - Sarah: EC didn't approve it, but Trainers did
            - Amanda: Did they?
            - Sarah: This could add more complexity than it might be worth
            - Karen: Could spare folks in the future 
            - Jeff: I like the idea. Anything we could do to reduce the labor 
            of Trainers is good. Application was a useful opportunity for 
            self-reflection but it would definitely be easier not to do this.
            - Sarah: what if returning Trainers didn't have to fill out the 
            application in the same way?
            - Karen: If we want to change things, we could do it now or wait a 
            year. If now, would file a proposal for discussion...forget it; 
            we'll deal with it next year, or sooner if we decide it rises in 
            importance.
    - Proposed Trainer community meeting schedule
        - Mark: Do we need to cancel the Thursday before Labor Day (Monday)?
        - Karen: No, we don't
        - Post as new issue or response to existing issue on the topic? How to 
        encourage community to propose discussion themes?
            - Sarah: We did not dictate how to communicate cancellations, so we 
            can choose. Keep it separate from issues? Use a discussion instead?
            - Karen: Could go in the README.
            - Sarah: Let's put it in the README with instructions to create a 
            discussion item if people want to comment on the schedule
            - Karen: I'll put the schedule in the README and add those 
            instructions.
            - Mark: Will asking people to create discussion dissuade people for 
            participating (those who aren't as familiar with GitHub)
            - Karen: I can also add e-mail means of commenting
2. Open Proposals
    - [Checkout process governance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/84#issuecomment-1005865964)
        - Mark: In "change requirements", reference to RFC - is this 
        referencing the RFC or the suggested change?
        - Amanda: I can edit it to make it clearer
        - Sarah: Let's replace the term "RFC" with pull request
        - Sarah: Do we need to have the actual governance document to be a 
        separate thing (like a PR to the policy folder) rather than the initial 
        proposal Issue
        - Amanda: I'm gonna copy-paste this edited thing into a PR and you're 
        all going to press OK, right?
        - Sarah & Mark: yes
        - if we approve, then open comment period?
    - [Maintainance policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126/files)
        - Sarah: Need feedback from Trainers group on this policy
        - Follow-up on [subcommittee for demo lessons](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/83): 
        suggest handing off to curriculum team with request that they recruit 
        and meet 1-4 times per year.
        - Still need to address the alternative starting points idea
            - Sarah: Let curriculum team do the alternative starting points 
            work; some curricula are better than others - some episodes don't 
            have live coding until long into the episode
            - Mark: Could test alternative starting points in Teaching demos or 
            test in Carpentries Instructor Training
            - Karen: Best lessons for Instructor Training are opposite of 
            demos. Demos you want something that is stable and live coding, for 
            Instructor Training want something most appealing, and OK if it is 
            unstable and doesn't have much live coding. Don't have much 
            time/space to tell people in Instructor Training where to start
            - Karen: Who has this responsibility? Curriculum team or a 
            subcommittee? We approved that a subcommittee would be responsible
            - Sarah: The subcommittee makes sense; I think we should somehow 
            merge this with maintainer policy, but that needs rephrasing
            - Sarah: to Mark's point: true that we don't know what people are 
            doing during an event, but some Trainers might be willing to follow 
            more closely. Could get feedback from trainees to see if starting 
            practice at weird points works for them. Structured data collection 
            among trainers, only among those who are interested.
            - Karen: That is something the subcommittee could work with 
            Curriculum team on; can ask Toby Hodges or Erin Becker about that.
3. Miscellaneous
    - [Instructor Training attendance discussion](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/123)
        - is this solved?
        - Sarah: We should link to the policy and close this issue
        - Karen: Yes, I'll do this
        - Mark: This could be a good community discussion for Workshops in 
        general
        - Sarah: But aren't we beholden to the policy?
        - Karen: Yes, but the general discussion of absences in light of online 
        workshops could be a topic for discussion
4. Planning for loose ends
    - Should plan to decide what will remain open and what will be closed
    - Also, how will onboarding work?
    - Sarah: Will work on (Maintenance policy)[https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126]
    - Sarah: We did the things we wanted to do, right?
    - Jeff: Could we plan to do some synchronous closing of issues?
    - Sarah: Been closing things when we finish task, but will add closing 
    issues to agenda
    - Karen: At Trainers meeting, may ask you to talk about benefits of serving 
    on Trainers Leadership
    - Mark: Are the next Trainers Leadership meetings Feb. 14/15 & 21/22
    - Sarah: Yes
