# Trainer Leadership Committee Meeting 2022-12-07 21:00 UTC
Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Bonny, Kelly, Karen, Pao, Sarah, Jeff, Mark
Apologies:
Absent:

1. [Checkout Project Recommendations proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226)
    - Sarah: Recommendations 1-3 seem good to approve but maybe we should 
    separate those from Core Team / procedural items with different 
    implementation
        - One reservation: did we give people enough time to comment?
            - Karen thinks so
            - Jeff: someone will always complain. Nothing will happen tomorrow, 
            and Trainers will have an opportunity to become informed about 
            changes, but think we are good.
    - Pao: do we have enough welcome sessions to accommodate everyone?
    - Kelly: we discussed this and will make sure we have the capacity for. We 
    can expand the members of Core Team who lead these, also opening up for 
    other hosts. Will be a priority.
    - Sarah: signing up to teach isn't enough to understand the community. 
    There needs to be some 2-way interaction for that get-involved step. 
    Putting their name on a sign-up thing isn't really enough. Someone who 
    comes in outside of a membership would get through the cracks and won't 
    have the chance to realize they have the wrong attitude about what we do.
    - Mark: I agree. Everything else on the list is an interaction. 
    - Jeff: could we replace it with "teach a workshop"? Also those examples 
    are not the only option. We need to consider the wording for the final 
    piece. 
    - Kelly: crux of how this step works is that we don't necessarily want to 
    have to police it. Too much does this count or not. Discussion is what we 
    choose to put as option but won't work with limits on what counts
    - Karen: this step is intended to be a nudge to get over a hump of joining 
    the community. Signing up to teach will hopefully lead to teaching and is 
    more achievable in the time window
    - Mark: might be good to say teach on the list. Down the road maybe if 
    people want to be active Carpentries instructors they need to participate 
    (as we have trainer expectations)
    - Jeff: it's easy to sign up, costs nothing, people back out of demos all 
    the time. Want to make it easy and not add burdens. Would like "teach a 
    workshop" to be on the list but there are plenty of other options that can 
    be achieved sooner. Could also leave this off entirely, but leaving it on 
    does indicate to folks who are going to teach that it would count.
    - Mark: being a helper isn't any easier to do on a timeline than being an 
    Instructor
    - Sarah: I'm ok removing that as an option. We want to encourage people to 
    be part of the community. I have someone who was an Instructor Trainee who 
    was participating with new Instructors, who really weren't displaying 
    Carpentries community values. That's a risk of growing the number of 
    Instructors too quickly. This process is the only thing we have to try to 
    catch people. We don't want to open up holes that become bad things later.
    - Karen: not sure the purpose of the Get Involved step is community 
    alignment, and if it is it may need to change. Many reasons to have Teach a 
    workshop on the list, especially re capacity in centrally organised 
    workshops
    - Mark: Can we get a report back on what kinds of activities people are 
    reporting, how it's going, and whether we need to make changes?
    - Change: delete 'sign up to teach,' add "an instructor or" to helper item
    - Sarah: should we have a separate proposal with just the 3 
    recommendations?
    - Mark: Can we vote on just the 3 recommendations without creating a 
    separate proposal?
    - Sarah: yes
    - Item 4 does not affect Trainers directly
    - Mark: can we approve these with notes, or do we need modifications prior 
    to approval?
    - VOTE:
        - Likes: Pao, Mark
        - Can live with: Bonny, Jeff, Sarah
        - Recommendations approved
        - See [Appendix 1](#appendix-1) for approved recommendations
    - Selection of a comprehensive list of appropriate demo starting points
        - This will belong to core team
2. 15/16 December Trainer Meetings (topic = Trainers Leadership Committee)
    - [Trainers Leadership Committee - Why join/ Recruitment](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/222)
    - Sarah can come to first
    - Jeff, Mark can come to second
    - Pao will try to come to first, but don't want to take responsibility to 
    be there because schedule is changing constantly
    - Will present update to EC
    - When should we start encouraging fellow Trainers to join?
    - Karen: Should have application ready and open by 15/16 December Trainer 
    Meeting
3. January Trainer Meetings (topic = Candidate Q&A)
    - [Election - Candidate Q&A](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/221)
    - Sarah can host these, not running for election, Core Team has to identify 
    a point of contact for the election (Karen again). 
    - Mark: will still be away from work
    - Karen: will be 19/20 January meeting
    - We need to notify people of candidates before
4. Actions from previous meetings
    - Six monthly report for EC
        - [November 2022 Trainer Leadership Report to EC](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2022-10-report-to-ec.md) [COMPLETE]
    - Blog post about trainer renewal process 
        - Karen has drafted a retrospective, but not published pending 
        messaging about trainer status being a role as opposed to a 
        certification
        - Karen: Feedback on the retrospective started to edge in to purpose 
        and intent. I felt this was a good direction but also one that we don't 
        have clear consensus on. In addition, there will be changes next year 
        based on change in Active status from a certification to a role 
        (layered over certification) in AMY. 
    - Instructions to [propose a Trainer meeting topic](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2) 
    need updating and should be copied to top of [Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/trainers)
        - [Revise guide for proposing Trainer meeting topics](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/218)
    - Karen will add next few meetings to the top of the Etherpad for 
    volunteers to sign up [COMPLETE]
5. Outstanding issues
    - Meeting proposal not added to list
        - [Engaging with trainees prior teaching experiences](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/210)
    - January & February schedule is difficult
        - January meeting should be just Q&A with candidates for Trainers 
        Leadership Committee
        - First February meeting can be main pre/post discussion
        - Leadership will meet in January
        - Sarah: We should consider updating our [election calendar](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md#nominations-and-elections) to afford more time for elections and 
        introductions with the candidates 
        - Karen: Should be a formal proposal; Karen will take first crack at 
        this; will likely need to be done asynchronously
        - Karen: There are multiple documentation updates that need to happen; 
        will probably try to do them all at once and a formal proposal can be 
        extracted from that
6. Core Team Updates & To-Dos for Leadership (will use time as possible with 
remaining communicated async)
    - Refreshing focus on purpose in January. In the next month, please 
    consider:
        - What is the purpose of this group (Trainers, Trainers Leadership 
        Committee, etc.)?
        - What is the purpose of Instructor Training?
        - What is the purpose of the certification renewal process?
        - Why are you here? What do you believe in that aligns your goals with 
        our purpose?
    - Upcoming elections to-dos
        - What should an election look like with 5 (or fewer) nominees?
        - We will have a need for ratification (and quorum). See documentation 
        updates below.
    - Certification renewal to-dos
        - Retrospective stalled with planning for next year, 'whys' that 
        haven't been discussed. 
        - [Draft re-revised Google form](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12NQqSp9h6KqNzikoQUsbC-L3cO77Pd62sz3kxVFZd2Y/edit?usp=sharing) is ready to submit via GitHub. 
        - Would like to have criteria for 'equivalent activities' as clear as 
        possible 
        - For Trainers with "0" in one category but otherwise equivalent 
        service (e.g. 3 events) what *should* we do, and how does that align 
        with the purpose of the process?
    - Documentation updates to-dos
        - Certification renewal language changes, proposed in 
        [draft Trainer handbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XN7cWRNjeu5tgWPxUlSz611RXi6bcGjkkUMUDu7iwaw/edit#heading=h.3fpx0nfye0rz)
        - Powers to update all but most essential/trainer-impacting elements of 
        documentation without ratification
    - Next Trainer Training will be in March

## Appendix 1

Text of three recommended changes to checkout process approved by Trainers 
Leadership Committee:

1. Modify the Teaching Demonstration: Allow trainees to prepare one episode 
instead of a whole lesson.
2. Replace 'Attend a Community Discussion' with 'Attend a Welcome Session'
3. Replace the Lesson Contribution with a more open-ended “Get Involved” Step
    - Allow trainees to "get involved" in any way that is meaningful to them. 
    We will provide suggested activities to guide them.
    - Trainees could:
        - Be an Instructor or a helper at a workshop
        - Attend a Curriculum specific onboarding
        - Attend an Instructor Meeting, regional meetup, or other community 
        meeting
        - Make a contribution to a Lesson or Glossario
