# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-02-15 0:00 UTC

Present: Amanda, Sarah, Mark, Arin, Jeff, Karen
Regrets:
Unexplained:

1. Adjusting attendance record-keeping to align with [meeting rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md)
    - Rules say that 3 unexplained absences are grounds for removal, but we 
    haven't been keeping track of when absences are explained or not. So in 
    addition to "Present" and "Regrets", minutes now have "Unexplained" 
    category
2. Core Team updates
    - First new sponsored training application was received and approved. Will 
    discuss role to be played by Leadership with next cohort
        - Arin: When you have a sponsored training application and approve it, 
        you know who the Trainers are, that the Trainers are approved and 
        properly trained. 
        - Karen: Currently only an option for Trainers or invited groups
        - Sarah: how is it administered, with a dedicated event or through 
        coupon codes?
        - Karen: Through codes, just slotting people into scheduled training. 
        Trying to cut down on dedicated events.
        - Sarah: Since it's a small number, could the Core Team just take care 
        of these?
        - Karen: Right now that works. Trainers Leadership will be useful when 
        requests may not immediately fit our goals of diversity and inclusion
        - Sarah: As this process continuous, could use it as information 
        gathering to help determine how Trainers Leadership could help with 
        guidelines 
    - Off-boarding and on-boarding procedures
        - Karen: What should I be keeping in mind while putting together 
        these materials?
        - Arin: Dedicate an hour for on-boarding?
        - Sarah: We can use the model of what we did this past year. The use of 
        Martha's Rules could use focus on on-boarding (i.e. clear expectations 
          of how people work on GitHub)
        - Jeff: The 3 documents:
            - [policy/leader_meeting_rules.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md)
            - [powers_responsibilities.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md)
            - [governance.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md)
        - Amanda: What about off-boarding? Do we need to move the agenda 
        document?
        - Karen: Will just create a new CodiMD
        - Sarah: Slack channel can be renamed or membership updated
        - Sarah: What else do we need to do for off-boarding? Are there other 
        Carpentries Committees that have documented their offboarding process?
        - Amanda: README.md will need to be updated. What about an alumni page? 
        Do you want to change the Zoom room?
        - Karen: It's a "public" Carpentries room
        - Amanda: Also need to update who is and isn't on calendar invites
    - Is [Schedule PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/155) ready 
    to merge?
        - Sarah: Ready!
    - We don't *technically* have a quorum that applies to the Trainer 
    Agreement, only the governance document, but it kind of seems like we 
    should? Should the election be extended if 
    [governance quorum](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md) 
    (60%) is not met? Currently at 33%.
        - Karen: Do we extend the election?
        - Mark: Reluctant to do so
        - Sarah: Agree with Mark. For next election, should *a priori* 
        establish quorum. Send one more reminder.
        - Jeff: Agree with Mark & Sarah
3. Review all open [issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues) and 
close as appropriate
- [Pilots of other workshop formats](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/127)
    - Arin: leave open
    - Jeff: Close? maybe we need to get more information about what works and 
    what doesn't, maybe this should be a different issue?
    - Sarah: good argument to leave this open. We need more data, ok to leave 
    refined problem in place for the next group.
    - Mark: can we put a little more description in there so we all know what 
    this is about?
    - Sarah: will assign myself to flesh that out. Will tag Jeff to help out.
- [Feedback on instructor training attendance requirements](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/123)
    - Karen can reply about resolution and policy changes. Then we can close.
- [Trainers agreement process update working group](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/106)
    - Sarah: abandoned because nobody wanted to do it. Need comment about lack 
    of participation and close. 
- [Complete governance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/103)
    - Notes from previous group, but have been in limbo with EC not giving us 
    anything. New group can decide to update and push that to Trainers and EC 
    without their approval 
    - Karen: There is still hope for EC. EC is aware that this is an open issue
- [Create an RFC (Request for comment) process](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/101)
    - Should leave open and work on this
- [Policy for checkout governance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/84)
    - Amanda did this, [PR #154](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/154) 
    just waiting for Arin's approval.
- [Establish a subcommittee for approved demo lessons](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/83)
    - Taken over by curriculum committee (?) We can close
- [Create a Policy for IT curriculum maintenance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/82)
    - Waiting until election ends
- [Remove Policy from the IT curriculum to simplify maintenance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/78)
    - Karen did much of this, reducing redundancy; can close
- [Timeline for trainer agreement update, ratification, and renewal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/77)
    - We can close
- [Proposal to have only one Instructor training lesson material repository](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/73)
    - Wait until maintenance policy gets resolved / closed
- [Items to defer for determination by the elected committee question](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50)
    - 103 subsumes this issue; should be able to close
- [A-la-carte Instructor Training Discussion Request For Comment](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37)
    - Super old and outdated. Comment and close.
