# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-06-08 20:30 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

## June 8, 2022
Attending: Sarah, Mark, Karen, Jeff
Apologies: Pao
Absent: Bonny

### Agenda
1. Core Team Updates
    - Demos signups 
        - Will open Calendly again late June, once CarpentryCon schedule has 
        occupied Room 2 calendar as needed. 
        - Add instructions for folks who do not want to add their e-mail to the 
        Etherpad
        - Consider changing language from "email your Trainer" to more detailed 
        instructions about waitlist behavior (e.g. add your name below, check 
        back to move up if a slot opens up, ok to show up to demo but expect to 
        leave if 5 registrants show up, etc)
            - Should this be a proposal on Trainers repo?
            - Trainers are feeling pressure to add people when they get e-mails
            - Could also include standardized language for responding to people 
            who want to observe
    - Instructor Development Committee
        - Meets 3rd Mondays 17:00 UTC
        - Chair is Elnaz Amanzadeh Jajin
    - CarpentryCon
        - Anything you'd like to see/do re governance?
        - [Proposals](https://2022.carpentrycon.org/blog/proposal-submission-open/)
        - [Coordination sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Ow9HsmQfcF-pj_HeiGhdSKQouMiTLuSxSqKPXJrOLM/edit?usp=sharing)
2. [Quorum clarification](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/164)
    - Pao comment about delays on decisions:
        - What should we do if a decision is delayed for more than x time? With 
        x being for example two months. I was thinking that we may need to 
        remind ourselves to keep an eye on issues.
        - Mark: don't think we should close an issue, it doesn't get less 
        important after 2 months
        - Jeff: maybe a separate issue
        - Sarah: agree, we can approve this issue and grapple with that 
        separately.
    - Four approvals for this issue; Mark will mark issue as approved
        - Jeff will create PR and request review
3. Other proposals needing final approval 
    - [Clarify Power for EC in documents without a vote](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/176)
        - Sarah will merge associated (and approved) pull request
    - [Use issue list for potentical Trainer Meeting topics](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/180)
    - [Use a Table-style Project for trainer meeting topic assignment](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/181)
4. Proposals that need writing
    - [Revise trainer community responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184)
        - Still a draft because pros/cons haven't been considered, but have 
        pasted content
    - [Apply consistent name of Trainers Leadership to document](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/188)
        - We are a Committee!
        - Jeff will propose a systematic solution
        - Mark: Anytime anyone comes across something that doesn't match, we 
        can fix
        - Jeff: Powers & Responsibilities, and Certification Renewal probably 
        most important
        - Sarah: Handbook too.
5. [Update on projects "underway" (approved proposals)](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AProposal+label%3Aapproved)
    - [March 2022 EC Report process](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/168)
        - Need to find PR and link to issue just for record keeping. Jeff will 
        add to comments and close
    - [Certification renewal implementation](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
        - Wait to close until it is done
    - RFC process
        - Good to close!
    - Policy for IT curriculum maintenance
        - Good to close!
6.  Outstanding [PRs](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls) for 
merging
    -  Trainers meeting minutes merged
    -  [Meeting topic proposal form](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/192) 
    to be worked on
7.  Update on non-proposals
    -  [IT Issue creation](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/177) 
    placeholder for now
    -  [Tools for IT Maintenence](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/152) 
    resources that we do not want to lose, but not sure how to best preserve 
    them
        -  Would be good to have a record of things we have tried, things we 
        have rejected
    -  [Proposal to have only one Instructor training lesson material repository](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/73)
        -  Ideally would not use two separate repositories (i.e. don't use the 
        datalessons repo)
        -  Closed
    -  [Items to defer for determination by the elected committee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50)
        -  Most of these have been addressed
        -  Need to make proposal for catching up with Carpentries Policy on 
        Policies (Karen will address)
    - Discussion on [Form for meeting topic proposals](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/192)
        - Clarification in language
        - Karen: who will be notified when a form is submitted?
        - Sarah: Anyone watching the repository. They will be labeled "trainers 
        meeting". Will assign them by default to Karen to ensure notifications.
        - Mark: next meeting, can we talk more about how to make the most of 
        Trainer meetings?
        - Jeff: when do we want to implement this form?
        - Mark: ASAP
        - Sarah: We should create a submission for an example
