# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-05-11 20:30 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Karen, Mark, Sarah, Jeff
Apologies: Pao,
Absent: Bonny

### Agenda
1. Core Team Updates
    - Infrastructure request project
        - Bottlenecks limit implementation, but we are creating and 
        prioritizing a list and preparing to advocate / devise workarounds
            - Making a wish list of automation tasks (e.g. AMY, Eventbrite)
        - Are there changes you would like to see? Now is the time to let us 
        know.
        - Sarah: we should review notes & minutes for data requests
    - Certification renewal update
        - Meeting attendance has been collected from notes
        - Differentiated emails, form to be drafted/updated
        - Should some flexibility be automated, e.g. taught 2 events but 
        attended no meetings or demos...? 
        - How much oversight does Leadership want?
        - Mark: Leadership should review the potentially "equivalent" cases
        - Karen: Could _a priori_ identify some of those equivalent cases that 
        count. e.g. someone who teaches **2** instructor training events is 
        automatically renewed
        - Sarah: if they have 0 in any category, would like them to fill out 
        the form because it will ask them about how to better serve them.
        - Jeff: don't want to create a lot of work to review equivalent cases. 
        On the other hand, the _a priori_ definition of what is equivalent 
        could be a bit of a rabbit hole. If there's goose eggs in any, that 
        should be a trigger for review or input. If you hit the 1,2,4, done. If 
        it isn't we review all of them. The first year maybe we just see how 
        many that is
        - Mark: can we say we recognize that you have done these and it may be 
        equivalent but we are still evaluating what is equivalent so appreciate 
        you filling in the form
    - List of Core Team community roles w suggestions
        - Next steps for this? (besides 
          [180](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/180)/[181](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/181) 
          yay!)
    - Blog post
        - copy sections from EC report (links and all) or draw on details for 
        broader overview?
        - Sarah: descriptions provided by Karen are well phrased. Could include 
        links.
2. [EC report](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/168)
    - We were supposed to be able to approve the text async. Left as a draft 
    because lost notes about what to put in the future section. Anything anyone 
    wants to add there? (Next item)
3. [March 2022 EC report](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/178)
    - Converting to "ready to review"
4. [Quorum clarification](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/164)
    - Can do this async too. Just a matter of here is document do we like 
    definition of Quorum? We haven't formalized quorum so we *could* approve it 
    today...
    - Sarah: When we do votes in meeting, it is "likes", "can live", or  
    "uncomfortable" - we should clarify what this will mean on GitHub. How do 
    people say they are uncomfortable and what happens in that case? Does it go 
    back to meeting?
    - Jeff: It does say. We can take this async and use it. Once enough people 
    like/live with it, then Jeff will open a PR that requires review by 1 
    person. Reasonable?
    - Sarah: yes we have to allow some grey area right now because we don't 
    have quorum for lots of reasons. 
    - Jeff: good opportunity to lead by example. Can send messages via GitHub 
    issues conversation.
    - Mark: We can comment with "like" "live" etc. We haven't had a quorum yet 
    this year. We also can't approve any of these today.
    - Sarah: One of the things here I think was approved because I already 
    merged a PR. Rubric update. (next item)
5. [Rubric update](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/172)
    - This was approved last meeting, will update GitHub now.
6. [Clarify Power for EC in documents without a vote](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/176)
    - No questions, will vote async
7. [Use issue list for potentical Trainer Meeting topics](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/180)
    - Sarah: Trainers talking about leading meetings talked about topic 
    proposal. We have had a lot of meeting topics proposed in a lot of 
    different places. This will aggregate. 
    - Mark: how does this form appear and where do people access it?
    - Sarah: Go to "new issue" and select "propose a meeting topic"  - we can 
    make fields, drop downs, all kinds of structure
    - Karen: can we separate host sign-up from topic proposal?
    - Sarah: form logic may get complicated. Commenting on topics that are 
    already there and volunteering
    - Karen: will try to take a shot at a more specific suggestion
    - Can approve this one before approving the form (next item)
8. [Use a Table-style Project for trainer meeting topic assignment](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/181)
    - Table lists issues in one column, other fields in other columns with info 
    that doesn't fit in structure of regular issue page. Could make a column 
    for date and assign to topics. Can also then filter and group issues in 
    different ways. Separate sections with who has signed up to host. Could use 
    assignees but that's a little harder. Any info we need to add -- a column 
    for pre/post discussions or not. 
    - Mark: Meeting day doesn't need to be unique - can have 2 topics for same 
    meeting date?
    - Sarah: yes. Could assign one host per topic per meeting time. People with 
    the right access can edit. Everyone can view. 
    - Mark: admin would be adding tags to topic issues once they were created?
    - Sarah: we could set up next few meetings. Go to table, pick from 
    drop-down list and pick the right meeting date to assign the topic.
    - Jeff: for last point we were just discussing. How Does topic selection 
    currently work? Karen imagines them? (yes). Is this a sledgehammer for a 
    thumbtack? If we get a lot of topics, this could be really cool. Technical 
    debt on our future selves? Maybe do the first one (figure out the form, see 
    how much traffic we get). But then again maybe it's only 10 minutes for 
    Sarah.
    - Sarah: setup is not much. GitHub does have some workflow automation and 
    more is coming. If something gets closed you can change the status etc. 
    It's at least not another place to put things. Not another google doc or 
    Karen's head, neither of which is transparent.
    - Mark: agree it may not be necessary. If it is trivial, even if we don't 
    use it but in the future if we start to get more issues, it could be ready 
    to go. 
    - Sarah: at least 2-3 topics somewhere in repo or IT curriculum. We can 
    make those issues and leave them where any Trainer can find them. 
    - Jeff: might as well start using this and see how it works
    - Mark: we are not going to submit for other people unless they really 
    don't want to?
9. [Revise trainer community responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184)
    - Trainer community responsibilities initially referred to renewal 
    requirements which were comprehensive. Now just meeting 1,2, and 4 but 
    other responsibilities like teaching our curriculum are missing. Need to be 
    added to the document accordingly.
    - Jeff: can we merge PR 182?
    - Sarah: Did merge that. Then opened a new issue to highlight broader 
    issue. 
    - Karen: is there a need to clarify when changes need ratification and when 
    Trainers Leadership can make changes (e.g. clarify in 
    powers/responsibilities)
    - Jeff: related to need to change name or standardize name of Trainers 
    Leadership ____. 
    - Sarah: related to [issue 176](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/176) 
    going to [PR 175](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/175). 
    Revised language to respond to EC, makde a proposal that we can agree that 
    it is ok for us to change this. But this is distinctly not within our 
    powers, but asking them to vote on something like this feels pedantic and 
    cruel almost.
    - Mark: in this case it is really just putting back something that was in 
    there. Anything else to do on this for now?
    - Sarah: need to think and craft some actual language.
10. Other [issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AProposal+label%3Aapproved) 
and [PRs](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls)
    - [EC report process](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/168) 
    can be closed or left open until [PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/178) 
    is merged
    - [Implementation proposal for certification renewal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167) - 
    leave open because not done yet
    - IT curriculum maintenance [issue](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/82) 
    and [PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126) - just needs 
    actual text approved in PR. Jeff and Pao have approved; Mark and Bonny have 
    not. 
    - Request for Comment [issue](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/101)
    and [PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/153) - only Bonny has 
    not approved the PR.
    - Minutes can be merged
    - [PR 187](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/187) is Sarah's 
    hacky way to get links from GitHub API for EC report. Creates a GitHub 
    action to manually trigger. It's all there. We just have to decide to merge
        - Karen: do we need technical review?
        - Sarah: have tested it on my fork. Can slack people who were tagged. 
        Will put contact info in files so people can ask if there are problems.

**Action item**: Jeff will contact Bonny regarding asynchronous approval of 
issues.
