# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-09-08 20:00 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

## September 8, 2022
Attending: Mark, Sarah, Pao, Bonny, Karen
Apologies: Jeff
Absent: 

1. Core Team Updates
    - Checkout project
        - Need to approve meeting topic :)
        - Plan to record meeting, make it clear that we are using it only for 
        assessment record, think we should not make it available to community.
        - Mark: what will the recording be used for
        - Karen: for Kelly's reference only
        - Sarah, and Pao agree to not sharing recording
        - topic approved and noted as scheduled
        - Kelly will host both meetings
    - AMY updates to badge vs role
        - "Active" trainers will have badge and role
        - "Alumni" status will keep badge, remove role
        - current is badge swapping to manage alumni status, the new version 
        will streamline core team work when trainers move between alumni and 
        active
        - it will also make the AMY record keeping more in line with the 
        narrative; we won't have to takeaway the trainer badge
    - Handbook/website timeline updates
        - more realistic timeline after CarpentryCon
        - teams draft content by November, community development will make 
        cohesive after. 
        - Pao: the [proposal for a trainer meeting guide](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201) will go there?
        - Karen: yes, it will be one of them
    - Low feedback scores from an event: thinking about follow-up
        - Karen: do we need a policy for how to deal with this? 
        - Mark: maybe reach out and ask if there was anything unusual
2. Actions from last meeting
    - Blog post about trainer renewal process
        - Presented to Core Team https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QnUT0ylRJShN5CDEzPHIbaXrEtNfKkiSCa7tDtfRmIM/edit?usp=sharing 
        - Still need to change last people to alumni
        - Proposed [form changes for next year](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1c4GRan7J1Ubz1FkHVBtQJfZ8X4azImS03jyilQOpTSA/edit?usp=sharing)
        - What is the best way to engage in further discussion around contents 
        of the checklist and guidance to direct people to schedule a meeting?
        - Should we update the Certification Renewal language and if so, what 
        should that process look like?
        - Two goals: fairness & engagement inclusion and keeping trainers 
        minimally prepared to teach
        - Some minor changes to the draft form 
            - note description required for champion
            - add numbers for reference
            - add clarification that approval is not guaranteed
    - Instructions to propose a Trainer meeting topic ((Click the "Project 
    details" icon on the [Projects page](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/1)) 
    need updating and should be copied to top of 
    [Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/trainers)
        - [form](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2)
        - instructions
> This project board is for the schedule of Trainer meetings.
> 
> The Trainer Leadership Committee maintains it.
> 
> To sign up to host a meeting, post a comment on the corresponding issue by clicking the title in the Proposed or Scheduled list. . To propose a topic, use the form titled, "Template for Trainer Meeting Topics" to [create a new issue](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/new/choose) on the trainer's repo.
> 
> See the trainer meeting pad for more information on the meetings or the meeting minutes for information about past meetings.

3. Review Trainers Leadership Committee expectations
    - Karen: will update on-boarding materials to say that proposals are how we 
    put items on our agenda, can be just an idea.
    - Under [Trainers Leadership Committee meeting rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md), "consideration for removal [from the committee] occurs after 3 unexplained 
    no-shows".
    - The [Leadership Committee rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md#removal) 
    state "If a Member consistently fails to meet the obligations outlined 
    above, they may be removed by a unanimous vote of the other Members". 
4. Process to volunteer to host a Trainer meeting
    - sarah: could duplicate the form but then how do we link meeting to 
    topics? Could make pre/post discussion as issues and people could sign up 
    on those to host, and if an additional topic gets proposed they could 
    comment on the issue?
    - mark: some people might be happy to do it "sometime" -- how do we capture 
    that this month?
    - Karen: maybe post next 3-5 meetings at the top of the Etherpad?
    - Pao: what if someone else proposes a meeting topic who is willing to 
    host?
    - Mark: I think people can just ask if others would mind if they host. I 
    think we should try having people sign up in Etherpad and fine tune if we 
    do find issues with it?
    - Mark & Bonny: like
    - Pao & Sarah: can live with
    - Karen will add to Etherpad
5. Approved proposals updates
    - [Use consistent naming for Trainers Leadership Committee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/193)
            - Replied on GitHub should be closed soon.
        - Review [IT Curriculum Maintenance Policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/it_curriculum_maintainance.md) 
        is "Trainers Leadership" different from "Trainers Leadership Committee"?
    - [Develop "Trainer Meeting Guide"](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
        - stretched out timeline, 
        - will start it as a PR on the trainer repo and then move it to new 
        handbook later 
        - will share this task async -- whoever gets to it first can start 
        working on it.
    - [Implementation proposal for Certification Renewal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
        - Karen will comment on the issue when final renewal is complete
6. Proposals in progress 
    - [DRAFT: revise trainer community responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184)
