# Trainer Leadership Committee Meeting 2022-10-13 20:00 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Karen, Pao, Bonny, Sarah, Mark, Jeff
Apologies: 
Absent: 

1. Core Team Updates
    - Checkout project update from Kelly:
        - 2/3 done on feedback (?)
        - Update on Consultations
            - COMPLETED: Member Council meetings - August 23, 2022
            - COMPLETED: Trainer meetings - September 15, 2022
            - COMPLETED: IDC meeting - September 19, 2022
            - COMPLETED: Community Discussions
            - SCHEDULED: Maintainers meetings - October 19, 2022
        - Things we accomplished since last update:
            - Completed Community Discussions 
                - Of the three Community Discussion sessions, we had two with 
                no non-Core Team participants. However, yesterday we had 
                several people attend and some great discussion. 
            - Continued asynchronous feedback collection - including emailing 
            everyone who has taken Instructor Training in 2022, but has not 
            completed checkout to ask them to share their thoughts. 
                - Google Form - 17 responses as of today
                - EasyRetro - some engagement 
                - GitHub Discussion - 2 comments 
                - Co-worked on qualitative data analysis from consultations so 
                far. 
        - Next Steps
            - Meeting with Maintainers on October 19
            - Analyzing notes from maintainer meeting and asynchronous 
            feedback. 
            - Creating summary of themes from consultations. 
            - By the end of October I would like to have a report about what we 
            learned and a draft set of recommendations. 
    - Instructor Training In-Person meeting debrief
        - priorities for 2023
            - Including, but not limited to
                - Capacity workflows & assessment
                - DEI curriculum
                - Trainer training
                - Improving the Trainer experience 
            - Mark: How much does communication/engagement affect the 
            Instructor or Trainer experience?
            - Karen: Don't know. Some people who don't attend many meetings 
            still stay involved. Instructor community needs help, but not clear 
            what exact problems are. Have been able to sustain the Instructor 
            community through the pandemic, but not sure why?
            - Mark: Generalized instructor training (for folks who are not 
              interested in becoming Carpentries Instructors) seems to conflict 
              with anti-priority of scaling up.
            - Karen: That's right, they are at odds. Executive team needs to 
            make decisions.
            - Mark: Would be good to involve Trainers community in this 
            decision, since they would be training people who aren't interested 
            in becoming Carpentries instructors.
            - Sarah: What about post-training requirements for new Carpentries 
            Instructors (like checkout items)? Who is responsible for this?
            - Karen: Definitely an area of development, requires input from 
            multiple teams
            - Jeff: Do we need to change the teaching demo process for 
            Trainers?
            - Sarah: More like we need to make the process better for trainees 
            (people signing up to do teaching demos).
            - Bonny: To help with capacity, we should include efforts on 
            retention
            - Karen: Agreed
    - Wrote draft of retrospective for Trainers on certification renewal. 
    Intended for email to Trainers. Not sure about blog post. Requesting 
    feedback from Trainers Leadership Committee.
        - planning to review [goals](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cgm1sNVHSn3y_69LArALEyjSLI0pgNpSGW_ye9I1TDo/edit?usp=sharing)
    - 2023 Leadership elections
        - This is also an opportunity for updates to documentation for this 
        group and/or the Trainer community that need to be ratified by the 
        community
        - Short survey for current members of Trainers Leadership Committee
2. Actions from last meeting
    - Blog post about trainer renewal process 
        - Karen is working on retrospective, see above, likely to be sent as an 
        email, rather than blog post; will send request for feedback shortly
    - Instructions to [propose a Trainer meeting topic](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2) 
    need updating and should be copied to top of [Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/trainers)
        - Jeff will review text (click on "Project details" (a square icon at 
          the top-right of the [Trainer Meetings page](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2))])
          - See [Issue with revised text](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/218)
3. Process to volunteer to host a Trainer meeting
    - Karen will add next few meetings to the top of the Etherpad for 
    volunteers to sign up
4. Checkout process review - progress update and discussion
    - Should have update from Kelly by end of October
5. Active proposals updates
    - [Use consistent naming for Trainers Leadership Committee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/193)
        - Update [IT Curriculum Maintenance Policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/it_curriculum_maintainance.md) 
        to replace "Trainers Leadership" with "Trainers Leadership Committee"
        - Jeff will take care of this
    - [Develop "Trainer Meeting Guide"](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
        - stretched out timeline, 
        - will start it as a PR on the trainer repo and then move it to new 
        handbook later 
        - will share this task async -- whoever gets to it first can start 
        working on it.
        - Karen will take care of this
    - [Implementation proposal for Certification Renewal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
        - Karen will comment on the issue when final renewal is complete
        - Done! Closed.
6. Proposals in progress 
    - [DRAFT: revise trainer community responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/184)
        - Still in draft form. Sarah will try to have something ready by next 
        meeting
        - Pao: Do we need to ratify this with the community?
        - Sarah: Yes, so we do need to finish this so it can go in with the 
        next round of elections
        - Karen: When updating the documentation, try to minimize the things 
        that need to be ratified by the community. Trainers Leadership 
        Committee exists to make decisions.
        - Mark: Wouldn't hurt to review what we are empowered to do and update 
        as necessary.
7. Work that needs doing
    - Report to EC (should have been submitted in September)
        - Jeff: Sarah, any thing to make this process easier?
        - Sarah: I wrote code to start a draft with all the links. There is a 
        [GitHub action/workflow](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/actions) 
        to automate the start of the process. This script is documented in the 
        [reports folder](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/tree/main/reports).
