# Trainer Leadership Committee Meeting 2022-11-10 20:00 UTC

Meeting rules: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md

Attending: Kelly, Karen, Mark, Sarah
Apologies: Jeff, Pao
Absent: Bonny

1. Core Team Updates
    - Checkout Project Recommendations (See [Appendix](Appendix) below)
        - Summary
        - Opportunity for initial discussion
            - Mark: Slack is still inaccessible for many trainers; having
            e-mail lists might be better option
            - Karen: E-mail is overwhelming for some
            - Mark: Email is nice because _everyone_ uses it
            - Kelly: There is a good community already on Slack, although
            keeping Slack participation optional is a good idea
            - Sarah: Could include new Trainers on a monthly basis
            - Mark: Changing topics, who is going to run the Welcome sessions?
            - Kelly: Community Development team (as part of Core Team) is
            already running these and will scale this up with Core Team
            - Sarah: Could Discussion hosts help out with this?
            - Kelly: Yes, there is a slide deck available
            - Karen: We want to be sure we have capacity for these even without
            relying on Discussion hosts
            - Mark: Are we going to provide a list of suitable episodes for
            teaching demos
            - Kelly: Yes
            - Mark: Demo changes: multiple people doing the same episode may
            not be ideal
            - Sarah: Demo changes: is this removing a challenge that is also
            inherent to teaching, such that this challenge is just deferred to
            the teaching experience? If they are intimidated by studying the
            whole thing they may not be prepared to teach, to be a good
            co-Instructor because you have familiarity with the full lesson
            - Mark: yes but being prepared to teach vs being aware is
            different. First time instructing maybe they only teach a couple of
            episodes.
            - Kelly: there are instances where you need to teach things you
            weren't expecting to teach, but not knowing where you will start is
            a little artificial. In most cases you know what you will teach and
            can plan for it.
            - Karen: fear of judgment in testing environment and inequity is
            clincher for me
            - Sarah: It isn't reasonable to expect Trainees to memorize an
            entire episode
            - Sarah: is there a way to not pass someone who seems like they are
            not sincere, that they are on autopilot having memorized their
            actions for this short performance. Maybe both demo and feedback
            both have to be good?
            - Mark: maybe they still prepare the full lesson in advance, but
            24h in advance are notified what episode they will teach from?
            - Kelly: Does anyone have input on the 3rd step (Replace lesson
            contribution with a broader "Get Involved" step)?
            - Sarah: 3rd step. Like the broad goal. Don't think signing up to
            teach a workshop is enough. Needs to be a contribution to the
            community. Recently heard of someone new teaching a
            centrally-organized workshop who was not doing well. They need to
            be interacting with other Carpentries people to be absorbing
            practice. If you aren't as deep in the community you might not get
            the same integration and support.
            - Karen: we won't be evaluating these but can decide what's on the
            list. That is, even if people choose something not on the list we
            are not planning to tell people "no"
            - Mark: can this be preemptive? They can do them before they are
            trained? Yes.
            - Kelly: we were thinking of not having a third step. Keeping the
            bar low but having a nudge to get involved will do its job.
            - Sarah: think this needs to be specifically a way of engaging
            *beyond* as a lead instructor. Demo certifies they are ready to
            teach. Welcome session prepares them to teach a workshop. Maybe the
            last piece of that is signing up to teach. This is where we want
            Instructors who are part of the community because the socialization
            of the community is what keeps quality consistent and keeps the
            learner experience what we want it to be. When you have instructors
            who don't talk to other instructors, don't start the habit they
            won't ever do it. Tight local communities are OK, but otherwise
            needs to be where they meet people, even asynchronous through a
            lesson contribution, but 2-way interaction. Signing up is passive,
            not interactive.  
        - Process for review and approval
            - Sarah: this power belongs to Trainers Leadership Committee (see
              [Powers & Responsibilities document](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md))
            - Submit as proposal on GitHub with timeline for implementation
            - Follow up with some Trainers meeting presentations
            - Mark: This doesn't seem like it would be a long, drawn-out
            process to make these changes
            - Kelly: That's right, we would mostly just need to update the
            instructions in the curriculum.
    - Cancellation and Attendance Policy updates
        - This is FYI with interest in feedback async
        - Leaves the role of deciding who did and did not attend to Trainers
    - That email to Trainers that Karen still hasn't sent for reasons
        - Karen: We still need to have addition discussions with the Trainers
        Leadership Committee about the philosophy of those "equivalent"
        activities and what should and should not be accepted for consideration
        of Trainer renewal

# Appendix

Draft text of Checkout Process Recommendations on 2022-11-10

## What We Learned: Summary of Major Points of Feedback

### Challenges to Address

+ Community Leaders and Trainers can’t follow trainees’ checkout progress
+ Some trainees are confused, intimidated, or don’t have the support to complete checkout
+ There is no way to share your accommodation needs during the checkout process
+ The etherpads are confusing and overwhelming for signing up for teaching demos and community discussions
+ There are sometimes not enough slots for teaching demos and at other times demos are frequently cancelled
+ Only checkout trainees attend community discussions
+ It is difficult to find a lesson contribution
+ Many trainees don’t know Github
+ Required lesson contribution leads to many inactionable issues and PRs for maintainers and/or lesson bloat
+ Trainees aren’t prepared to organize and teach a workshop after checkout
+ We don’t know how many people intend to check out
+ Many people mentioned the process taking a lot of time

### Consultation Themes

#### Goals/Purpose of Checkout

+ Community Onboarding (46)
+ Prepare to teach / Teaching Practice (36)
+ Connect with the Community (23)
+ Demonstrate Understanding (18)
+ Quality Assurance / Summative Assessment (14)
+ Contribute to lessons (9)
+ Checkout support (2)
+ Professional development (2)
+ Learn community updates (1)

#### Most Worthwhile Parts

+ Teaching Demo (41)
+ Discussion (19)
+ Lesson Contribution (17)
+ Summary
    + Teaching demo was overwhelmingly seen as the most worthwhile part of checkout for both the trainee and the community.

#### Most Challenging Parts

+ Lesson Contribution (31)
    + GitHub but also finding something to contribute
+ Teaching Demo (22)
    + Challenging because it is intimidating
    + Especially having to prepare a whole lesson
+ Community Discussion (1)
+ Summary
    + People agreed that both the lesson contribution and teaching demo are challenging for different reasons. The teaching demo is challenging, because it is intimidating and seems like a test. The lesson contribution is challenging for the trainees because of the need to know Github as well as the difficulty in finding something to contribute. It is challenging for the community because of the burden on the maintainers and the noise it creates on our lessons.  

#### Barriers

+ Technology (25)
    + Especially Github
+ Signing up / scheduling (23)
    + Particularly related to space in demo sessions
    + Generally on using the etherpad for both demos and discussion sign up
    + Some discussion of timezones being a problem
+ Intimidating (18)
+ Time (15)
+ Confusion / Misunderstanding (13)
+ Finding something to contribute (9)
+ Maintainer burden / lesson noise (7)
+ Only checkout people attending community discussions (5)

#### Community Suggestion Improvements

+ Create cohorts or provide support so that cohorts who train together can complete checkout together (20)
+ Be a helper at a workshop (15)
+ GitHub skill ups (10)
+ Assign trainees a buddy/mentor (9)
+ Observe a workshop (8)
+ Help member orgs and community coordinators track their members’ checkout (7)
+ Revise community discussions (6)
+ Provide options or streams for completing checkout (5)
+ Trainer support (4)
+ Discontinue the lesson contribution step (3)
+ Provide opportunities for live demos (3)
+ Allow recorded teaching demos (2)
+ Discontinue the teaching demo (1)
+ Host prompts (1)
+ Instructor onboarding (1)

### Recommended Changes to Checkout

1. Modify Teaching Demo: Change the requirement that trainees prepare a whole lesson to trainees can choose an episode
    + Rationale: Teaching demo is to demonstrate they know and can use our pedagogy. Not to demonstrate their technical ability. Uncertainty adds to the intimidation factor. Removes the lack of fairness based on the number of episodes various lessons have.
2. Replace Attend a Community Discussion with Attend a Welcome Session
    + Welcome sessions will include an element of onboarding to teach a workshop.
    + Rationale: People liked the Community discussion step as a way to connect with the community, but it wasn’t serving its intended purpose anymore. Only trainees were attending most discussions. By switching to a welcome session, we are ensuring everyone gets the same community onboarding information. Will provide them ways to connect with the community further.  
3. Replace Lesson Contribution with a broader “Get Involved” Step
    + What: Allow trainees to do pretty much anything to complete this step but provide them with some suggestions
        + Sign up to teach a workshop
        + Be a helper at a workshop
        + Curriculum specific onboarding
        + Attend an Instructor Meeting, regional meetup, or other community meeting
        + Lesson Contribution/Glosario
    + How: Have trainees submit a brief description of what they did to AMY similar to how they can submit lesson contributions now. Admin can approve using our current workflow for lesson contributions.
    + We will leave this very open. Basically anything they decide to do will be accepted.
    + The goal of this step is to give them a nudge to find a way to get plugged into the community. It provides flexibility for them to explore the areas that interest them (e.g., lesson development/maintenance, regional communities, teaching, etc.)
4. Administrative Improvements
    + Explore both medium and long term solutions to allow Member Contacts and Community Coordinators to track trainee checkout progress
        + Ask trainees to opt in to have their information shared for the purpose of checkout support/community building
        + Medium term: Look into creating automated reports or making member emails more useful
        + Long term: Create different levels of AMY permissions to allow direct access to certain data
    + Explore ways to create optional slack channels for each Instructor Training Group. Possibly creating the group and providing instructions for joining in the email sent to Trainees a week before. This will allow trainees to interact before, during, and after the training. The idea is to create an opportunity for informal cohorts where people can ask each other questions, set up times to practice teaching, etc. Trainers will not be required to create or monitor these groups. We are simply providing a space for connection.    
    + Include a question in the Instructor Training application that asks if trainees intend to checkout
