# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2022-03-16 20:30UTC

**Present**: Pao, Sarah, Jeff, Mark, Karen
Regrets: Bonny

Absent:

1. Introductions
    - Meeting conventions: hand-raising, making space (skipped)
        - Will start with asynchronous (e-mail) communications
    - Schedule for recurring meetings (skipped)
        - Karen will propose (asynchronously) some new times
    - Roles: Chair & Secretary (skipped)
2. Blog post?
    - publish responses from [self-nomination form](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/elections/Nominees2022.md) or create new bio paragraphs?
        - For returning members, re-use / revise "looking forward to" sentences
        - For new members, look at last year's responses and write anew
    - report to community on accomplishments to date? This folds into EC
    report, can pull from that.
    - Jeff: there is a different audience for the blog post so it's ok to
    duplicate information from the EC report
3. [EC Report](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/168)
    - Proposal for process for next 6-month report
    - 4 likes - unanimous for all present - passes.
4. Community request for African/European-friendly Trainer meeting times
    - Should this be a formal proposal?
        - Mark: think this is Karen's/Core Team decision about whether to go
        ahead with this. Has been run by Core Team.
        - Sarah: technically in powers/responsibility setting agenda is full
        community and schedule belongs to us.
        - Jeff: wonder about capacity. This is dictated by some degree. Maybe
        EC/Core Team needs to budget or acknowledge that Karen can't get up at
        3am so we need to have someone who can facilitate meetings to support
        them. Maybe the proposal is to recommend to EC
        - Sarah: in the past, community members have run these meetings
        - Mark: currently meetings are 14:00 and 22:00 which isn't hugely
        inconvenient for european time, might be a small number affected.
        - Karen: there is opportunity for further evaluation of need for
        additional/different time. Could submit a formal proposal or think
        about how these are settled in general.
        - Sarah: What would proposal? Add a third meeting? Reschedule the two?
        Create a process for changing schedules?
        - Pao: First would be easiest, and we should do a poll to see how much
        need there is for a third meeting.
        - Sarah: can we add a question to the certification renewal?
    - How should the community submit suggestions like this?
        - Mark: as a general rule when one person submits a suggestion we won't
        know if it's just one person
        - Sarah: maybe we should make a project for "how to submit things to
        us" this year
        - Mark: maybe a form. I can do this because it aligns with my stated
        interests in my nomination.
5. Certification renewal plan
    - Oops: [re-activation criteria for alumni](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-alumni-status) were not updated with certification renewal.
        - Karen: Still need content for alumni / path to reactivation?
        - Inconsistency is in Alumni section first bullet point (< 3 months)
        and point C in certification renewal; could fold into second bullet
        point (3-12 months)
        - Karen: I could submit a PR to make language consistent
        - All present agree
    - [Proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/167)
        - Pao question: the date between when they submit and we approve
        changes is very close.
        - Sarah: sounds like Karen will bring list of people to decide about to
        our April meeting. There doesn't sound like anything to go to Trainers
        in the interim.
        - Mark: my concern is that we may need to write that meeting off solely
        for this
        - Sarah: thats why we have a backup meeting; do we expect the number to
        be low?
        - Karen: hope so; some concern around language for attending Trainer
        meetings
        - Jeff: there seems like information on the form that the Carpentries
        should already have data on this
        - Karen: want to be maximally inclusive (e.g. not really looking at
          attendance at Trainer meetings); this form requires folks to opt-in
          in participating in the renewal process
        - 4 likes - unanimous for all present - passes.
    - Draft form review
        - add subject of e-mail that was sent to the trainers
        - Jeff: it is weird that we ask them to tell us how many events they
        taught when we could look up that information
        - Mark: the yes/no questions aren't too hard though, it's not asking
        for a number
        - Sarah: after the 3 checkbox questions can we remind people that if
        you did less of one and extra of another, note that in the extra
        engagement thing (e.g. extra demos, extra meetings).
        - Karen: it also is essentially a report to LEadership so maybe
        appropriate not to rely on database info
        - Planned send: March 25th
        - Karen: Will add a question about Trainer meeting times
        - Pao: Do we ask people to add their time zones?
        - Karen: Will need to think about how to best ask about meeting times
        - Sarah: Is this just the point to see if it is a problem that needs
        fixing, then, if so, follow-up with a process to address it.
        - Mark: Could just ask people if it is a challenge to attend Trainers
        meetings as currently scheduled, then address the problem if it is a
        significant problem
        - Jeff: time zone question is super short, and would make it easier to
        figure out where the most people who can't attend are located.
        - Plan to add 2 questions:
            - "I would attend more Trainer meetings if they were held at a
            different time" yes/no/maybe
            - "What time zone are you in?"
6. Next steps on maintenance policy
    - [Proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/82) and [PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126/files)
        - Sarah: One day short of the required 14 day window; there are some
        areas in need of clarification. Sarah will add clarifications and do
        asynchronous approval
7. Last section of report to EC will be "looking ahead"
    - Pao: evaluating meeting times is part of trying to increase participation
    of the community. Do we want to make that a formal thing?
    - Sarah: yes
8. Next meeting
    - Still need to define impact of quorum [Proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/164)
