# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2021-07-12 23:00UTC

Present: S. Brown, J. Oliver, M. Crowe, A. Charbonneau, K. Barnes, K. Word
Regrets: A. Basu

1. Core Team update
    - Sponsored IT status update
        - [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10du-3oxx54zMsvltwSN-aNY1w9FFHt8zPUJoiOPQGi8/edit?usp=sharing) returning to EC in August
    - Curriculum status update
        - Email will go out to the Trainer community within the next few days
        - SB: Is getting the timing right worth delaying the update?
        - KW: I think it is because if people are going to go through the effort of learning a new curriculum, it needs to be worth the invested effort. Multiple choice questions and learner profiles are things people have been talking about skipping. 
        - JO: I will be using the new curriculum from now on. I go into IT expecting to cut something.
        - SB: When Amanda and I taught last, we didn't skip much. We skipped a lot less than I skipped in the past.
    - IT communications & workflows project
        - Looking at every touch point - communications with trainees
        - Looking at what information we convey at each point
        - Streamlining and improving the whole process ( we hope)
2. New proposals
    - [RFC process](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/101)
        - Might off load some of the work of consulting with the community if we have a plan in place that we can use each time. 
        - MC: Is there not an existing protocol?
        - SB: A la carte instructor training is an example. [Issue 37](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/37)
        - SB: If we don't think we will use it much, we can also move on.
        - MC: Could be just a checklist or something.
        - Approved by all.
        - Mark and Sarah will draft depending on what happens with Trainer Agreement.
4. Followup/Discussion
    - trainer agreement 
        - [schedule](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/77)
            - We are supposed to have something to present for the next Trainer meeting. How do we want to proceed? We aren't getting preliminary comments, but we have asked. 
            - MC: Sent out a call for people to help. Only 1 person answered to say they weren't available. 
            - SB: We should try to come up with a proposal for the Trainer "Agreement" and bring a draft to the August Trainer Meeting. People can provide feedback then. We can have a section in the "agreement" on how it gets updated. We can work on Sarah's fork and then make a PR to share with people.
            - AC: I like the idea of splitting into two concepts and having a section on how it gets updated. I'm still not clear on, if you don't maintain your active Trainer badge, you can't teach? It seems like if you aren't prepared to train 12 hours, you can't train at all. And that seems weird. 
            - SB: If they don't do enough things they need to do something to reactivate. We aren't saying you can't train at all. Just that we need you to catch up somehow. 
            - KW: We almost need to start over with this. There is the question of keeping people current. The second is the constant tension between local and global in terms of service and sustainability. A number of Trainers spend a lot of time in their local community, but don't want to do things in the global community. We have in our core values, value all contributions. We know there are many reasons people can't participate at the level we want them to be. We can't call this an agreement in name or in spirit. My vision is that we ask them to tell us how they plan to serve the Carpentries community in the next year.
            - SB: Two parts: 1) minimum you must do to keep your badge active and 2) a prediction of how much and what they are going to do. Does that work? 
            - KW: If we take out the "I will" and "I agree"
            - MC: When you sign up to do Trainer Training, do you tick a box that says you commit to a certain amount of service? 
            - KW: We ask them to read and agree to the Trainer agreement. 
            - MC: Maybe we should make it clearer that when people go to Trainer Training, they commit to x amount of time as an active Trainer. Also, what should we do with those who are part of a membership? Should those under memberships be required to do more above their membership requirements? 
            - KW: This is built into membership agreements.
            - SB: We can have one streamlined list of badge requirements and memberships will deal with the membership issue. 
        - [prelim draft](https://github.com/brownsarahm/handbook/blob/patch-2/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.md)
    - [holidays](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/115)
        - can we get an accommodation for pre/post added
        - Jeff will add an accommodating for pre/post discussions. 
        - It's been approved at least once by everyone. And at least one person will need to approve revision.
    - [Piloting](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/104) 
        - Kelly (Karen) is there assessment data that can help
        - How does Trainer availability work with something like this?
        - JO: It seems like Instructor Training is a limited resource. If that's the case, how can we increase it? What is the state of the limitation of supply? 
        - KW: You have a hypothesis that if Trainers only had to teach 1 day instead of 2, they may teach more often. I agree this is worth exploring. I don't think we will know until we try. Our form is already challenging so it would be hard to add more complexity.
        - AC: I only teach one because it is difficult to fill out the form.
        - AC: Why aren't these scheduled like other Carpentries workshops?
        - KW: 1) There is a bigger Instructor pool, 2) Dates are set by members. The old way made the form easier but there was a lot more back and forth. 
        - JO: The form is a bunch of when to meets. We could do single days and pull out the days where there are two people. 
        - KW: This isn't your problem to solve. This was just for information.
        - SB: How do we want to proceed on this? Also, some local areas are making their own schedules and we don't have a way to get the data about how its working.
        - JO: Can we get a sense of the limitations on Trainers with a poll? 
        - KW: Sarah and I had talked about polling the community on curriculum. We could consider putting something in there about this.
        - AC: Is it necessary that the two days be adjacent? 
        - KW: The problem with weird schedules is that it gets harder for us to schedule and harder for people to commit. Other Carpentries workshops have experimented with this and they have had scheduling problems. 
        - [Sandbox scheduling form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gKxif9JFkJ3WEu6j2lFkE9bcgXqgj09SOm2IIqC9aiQ/edit?usp=sharing)
    - [clarify our scope](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/125) Sarah
        - draft in progress. Everyone is welcoming to comment on the PR. 
    - [maintainance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126) Sarah
        - draft, in progress; still need to find out what we can call things if not "policy"
    - [moving policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/78) Karen?
        - with update or after? in progress with current update but not completed until after
    - [checkout governance](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/84) Amanda
        - AC: I worked on it but haven't written it out. I will have that done for the next meeting.
    - [approved demos](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/83) Sarah
        - curriculum team help so we don't have to recruit Trainers for the ongoing maintainance of the list. We should provide guidance to the curriculum team though. 
