# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2021-04-17 23:00UTC

1. Github approvals/ minutes review (Amanda, 10 min)
    - This is all taken care of except that Arin still has not been able to log in to the repo. Karen will talk to Maneesha tomorrow about Arin's invitation and getting Christina K. removed. 
    - For PRs, should everyone approve and the last person merge? Jeff is happy to take on the responsibility of merging the minutes.
    - Arin: Should we wait and approve it at the meeting, then have a designated approver?
    - Sarah: This would require waiting a whole month.
    - Amanda: Asynchronous approval is still approval. The reason we usually have the PR author be the one to merge is that when you make a PR you can't approve your own thing. Once everyone has a checkmark, everyone will have said yes and I will merge. We can set up the repo so that any changes made post-approval will un-do your approval. This might be the kind of thing you are worried about
    - Arin: is there a reason we should rush to approve?
    - Sarah: It's a matter of meeting time. It's not a good use of synchronous discussion time. Approving pull requests should be done by reading and checking off a box.
    - Arin: How about Sarah or Jeff take the responsibility of putting the final stamp.
    - Sarah: but in general, do we have limits on who can approve? Typos anyone can merge. 
    - Mark: Like the idea of a mechanism to un-approve things when changes are made.
    - Testing currently indicates that it will *not* unapprove things when changes are made. Amanda will let Karen know what needs to be changed.
2. Proposals: to do things  (10 min)
    - [remove policy from curriculum](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/78)
        - Jeff Question: where would policy then live?
        - Sarah: most policy should live in the Handbook. Checkout procedure should be in one place. 
        - Arin: is that going to be our policy? What is the definition for policy? e.g. in almost all IT curriculum you emphasize to maintain the CoC. This is a policy but it is also integral to running the curriculum.
        - Karen: it will take a while
        - Arin: Cognitive load may be an issue. When we distill things vs sending them to a detailed page that can support them in understanding policy.
        - Sarah: It may still help to introduce them to the actual policy because the authoritative source may change over time. If we refer people only to the Handbook that may be less overwhelming but that is a separate aside
        - Jeff: we want to not duplicate stuff, yet everything needs to be in the curriculum. It's a tradeoff but having the authoritative source elsewhere makes sense
        - Sarah: the main problem is that maintainers keep getting stuck on things that change. If. we don't have it in our curriculum, we won't have these issues.
        - Likes: Mark, Amanda, Jeff
        - Can live with it: Arin
        - **Approved**
    - [Privacy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/88)
        - our default policy would be open. We would only redact things that were names and if we felt that it was a problem to publish those names
        - At the end of the meeting we decide whether there need to be redactions, maybe vote? if we decide to keep it can stay, if it can be redacted. Once it is in GitHub nothing can be truly redacted.
        - Specifies that we are not required to redact information in the case that releasing it is necessary/useful.
        - Karen: will need to mesh with Carpentries privacy policy per Maneesha and Francois
        - Arin: what is personal information?
        - Amanda: names and identifying information, not conversation _per se_
        - Arin: members of Leadership may not be unique - Trainers have this concern too.
        - Sarah: the purpose of this document is to guide Trainer Leadership meeting. We can discuss broader policy elsewhere.
        - Arin: Names of leadership will not be redacted. Names and identifying features of non-leadership persons will usually be redacted. I would like to see a balance that the names of the Trainers leadership may or may not be redacted. Lets say for some reason I want my name to be redacted for something I said. I expect that to be honored. It can be modified to read that names of the Trainers Leadership usually will not be redacted. Just to be more flexible.
        - Jeff - I did redact content from last meeting that was unnecessary to include. On the other hand, I would like to operate on a fairly transparent basis. If I say something about someone that doesn't necessarily affect them, I just shouldn't say those things.
        - Arin: if someone says something that they don't want to associate their name with, leave that option open.
        - Sarah: This makes me uncomfortable. Some comments that aren't germane to the meetings can be redacted.
        - Arin: I'm ok with this, but as a general code of ethics, it is appropriate to have control
        - Sarah: Either there is zero attribution or there is full attribution. 
        - Mark: We are here we are in control of what we say, I don't think we should be on a committee where someone is prepared to say something they are not willing to stand behind. Giving us the option to say things anonymously as a leadership group is not helping complaints about lack of communication. There was something in Martha's rules where the Committee might choose to say something attributed to the committee. But otherwise 
        - Arin: Just want to leave a little flexibility in honoring a person's right to remain anonymous.
        - Amanda: this makes me feel weird. There's lots of times where you have purposely given up some of your anonymity. Deciding to be on this board you just have to be behind the things you are promoting.
        - Arin: In principle there is no conflict. "Usually" is 90% of the time.
        - Sarah: We will not be able to approve this today. Please participate in [the online discussion](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/88) asynchronously so we can approve quickly next time. We can all think about whether we want to allow our names to be redacted or not. 
3. Proposals: to start projects (10 min) _assign someone to lead each one accepted_
    - [Trainer Agreement update process wg](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/100)
        - **Approved**
        - Assigned to Mark
    - [Holiday policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/93)
        - Jeff: Do we need to have a policy?
        - Karen: Does Trainers Leadership need to do this, or should Karen do this?
        - Amanda: Should we do an RFC to see what Trainers community thinks - that is, do Trainers think we need to create a policy?
        - Sarah: Do we need an _a priori_ system to deal with holidays to ensure appropriate level notice / planning when Trainers meetings would be canceled for a holiday
        - Amanda: Seems it might be difficult to have a holiday policy for a global organization
        - Kelly: How many people does a holiday have to affect before changing / cancelling meeting?
        - Mark: The recent one was partly due to time zone differences: Thursday in some of the globe, but Friday morning (Good Friday) in Australia
        - Sarah: Do we want to decide on this once or do we want it to linger?
        - Mark: My preference would be leave it and monitor for 6 months to see if it really is an issue.
        - Sarah: If we vote today the person can take as long as they want.
        - Jeff: RFC is good because it engages Trainers, bad because it adds time.
        - Sarah: purpose of RFC was to get a list. Could make a generic policy that doesn't include a list. Editing that line out now...
        - Likes: Jeff, Amanda, Arin
        - Can live with it: Mark
        - **Approved**
        - Assigned to: Jeff
    - [Checkout process update policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/84)
        - Do we need a policy for how we make decisions about the checkout process? Sarah feels that this is something we need to take great care with what promises we make to the community about processes around this checkout process. Alternative is to keep it our power and update the checkout process at will.
        - Arin: confused as to who makes those mandates.
        - Sarah: Policy states we can do whatever we want. Do we need a policy for how checkout process gets updated?
        - Amanda: Given that this power is provisional, how much effort do we want to spend on developing this process?
        - Karen: Until EC approves, it may be a question of policy to create recommendation to EC vs policy to create change.
        - Who likes? Amanda, Mark, Arin
        - Can live: Jeff
        - **Approved**
        - Assigned to: Amanda
    - [Demo lessons subcommittee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/83)
        - _Next meeting_
    - [IT curriculum maintainance policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/82)
        - _Next meeting_
        - Curriculum update Core team project timeline (Karen)
        - do we want a policy about the onboarding process in place before or after this onboarding?
4. Discussion: Trainer Application review (Karen 15 min)
    - _No discussion_
    - based on discussion 04-12 and async comments [in the spreadsheet]
5. Asynch discussion: Governance 
    - _No discussion_
    - governance issue with meetings schedule/ ownership
    - update from EC?
        - 2 relevant committees: Program Committee (chaired by Sarah Stevens) and Governance Committee (chaired by Paula Andrea Martinez). Committees are new and as yet seem unclear on their roles. Sarah (Brown) has been introduced by email.
        - No further bylaws modifications will occur this year, but rather recommendations will be drafted for next year's updates.
6. FYI (FYI only) **not discussed, due to time**
    - [update rules?](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/102)
    - [placeholder proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/103)
    - [collaborative drafting of required report to EC](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/89)
    - [draft of requrie report to EC for review](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/90)
7. Time zone of meetings (Karen, 2 min)
    - Is tying the schedule to US daylight/standard time ok?
    - NZ we do have time zones that change. 
    - For now, keep with US Daylight/Standard time changes
