# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2021-05-10 23:00UTC

**Present:** Amanda Charbonneau, Mark Crowe, Jeff Oliver, Arin Basu, Karen Word, Kelly Barnes
Regrets: Sarah Brown

1. Proposals to start projects:
    - WAIT (SB proposal): [Demo lessons subcommittee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/83)
    - WAIT (SB proposal): [IT curriculum maintainance policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/82)
    - [Trainer meeting minutes/privacy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/88) - Amanda
        - Request to avoid creating policy or guidelines re privacy until Carpentries-wide policies are in place. Renaming?
        - Amanda: Not sure what we are supposed to put in here or if we just want to wait
        - Karen: Maybe we need to rethink how we go about this. We are trying to inform trainer community about our current practices.
        - Amanda: Is the concern that this is specifically labeled a privacy policy or is there something we need to do for policies in general that needs more steps?
        - Karen: In this case, we just want something that doesn't call itself policy. We can call this Documentation or an FYI or something else
        - Mark: Maneesha suggests that we shouldn't even call it guidelines.
        - Karen: Policy about what we publicize in our notes
        - Mark: We need an agreement that is approved by the whole group
        - Jeff: I'm focused on the minutes. Can we scope this back to only the minutes. We can call it a practice, super streamline it and move on. Done is better than perfect. Is there an opportunity to carefully put something into place that we can use and move on?
            - Rename it to "Trainers Leadership Meeting Minutes Redaction Practice" and make it super-duper simple? The Trainers Leadership will publish meeting minutes and reserves the right to redact material that the committee deems to adversely affect an individual.
        - Arin: What we are doing is more than a practice. Its not a matter of what we label it, but what we do. Where is the border between a practice and a policy? Should this also affect how the next leadership committee communicates, or is it just us?
        - Mark: Trainer Leadership Minutes Policy
        - Karen: This is something I can ask Maneesha. This isn't a privacy policy, its just a policy on how we handle minutes. 
        - Amanda: I'm good with either direction. It would be good to know if the word policy is a problem all the time or if this is just related to a privacy policy. Are we doing things outside of the scope of our group?
        - Karen will talk to Maneesha and let everyone know. Amanda will rescope and we can approve next meeting. 
    - [agreement working group](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/106) - Mark
        - Mark: A small group with ties to local communities to identify issues of concern with current agreement, come up wtih proposals to update, get feedback, and write it up into a final version for ratification by the trainer community. I said 4, but Arin suggested 5 in case there is a split vote. Selection: call for nominations and then select. An election is not feasible with our timeline
          - Arin: Now the number makes sense so don't worry about having 5 instead
          - Karen: I didn't see a step for approval of what the working group puts together by Trainers Leadership
          - Mark: No, there wasn't anything about ratification by Trainers Leadership. We can put it before this group asynchronously. Doing it face to face may delay, because of the timing of trainer meetings.
          - Jeff: Is the refinement of changes the working group or Leadership? Maybe we can add who is doing which steps
          - Mark: I can add an overseeing step. 
          - Karen: This needs to move forward before our next meeting. 
          - Mark: Yes, we need to call for volunteers like this week. 
          - Mark: Maybe we can approve the Process of consulation and allocating responsibilities of the working group now and work on the other parts and approve them later.
          - Amanda: What is the working group going to be doing?
          - Mark: I've tried to write the proposal so that the group is defining both the process and writing the new agreement
          - Karen: Its probably not bad if this gets bumped back. The timeline was optimistic.Let's revise and come back when Sarah can also be here to talk about it 
          - Mark: I can set up two proposals and we can decide which one we want to approve as a group
          - Amanda: If the working group is for the process, I think 3 + 1 is good, but if its for the agreement we probably need more people. 
          - Mark: We are going back to this being a proposal for the process rather than for the agreement itself.
          - Arin: What is the by date for the Trainer Agreement?
          - Amanda: If we need a new trainer agreement, but faster, maybe we should write the proposal with 3 or 4 other people, make that public, and on the side document what we are doing. Basically, building the process as we do it. 
          - Arin: Do we need to reinvent the wheel and create a new agreement?
          - Karen: There's a plan in the works for a general volunteer agreement that our fiscal sponsor wants us to have. As that moves ahead, there has also been discussions about other things we call agreements. We probably can't call this an agreement anymore. Questions about the purpose and philosophy of the document need to be discussed. These deeper questions need to be addressed by this group and others. 
          - Arin: This can't be rushed then and will need a wider consultation. 
          - Mark: It is more important that this group be only focused on the process and we have a larger group to focus on the update. 
          - Next steps: 
              - **For next meeting:**
                  - Mark will revise the proposal so the working group is to create a process
                  - Start looking at the existing trainer agreement and thinking about what we would want to change. Amanda will make an issue after the call to start this discussion.
              - **For Later** 
                  - Recruit for working group
                  - decide on new timeline for the updated agreement document 
          - Karen: I like the idea of having this group be involved at the beginning and the end. I'd like to see this group steer the direction. 
2. Discussion: Projects that maybe aren't proposals? (skip if short on time) - Karen
    - Community building type work (eg Brian & Danielle were doing)
        - Interest in previous leadership group in regional community building. Brian and Danielle met several times to talk about this. But, this kind of fell off. If there is interest in this, we need to make sure there is room for it in our work.
    - Liaisons
        - We talked about having liaisons to other groups (e.g., Code of Conduct committee, Executive Council, etc.). There may be less need for liaisons to CoC committee since we are taking policy out of the curriculum. No immediate need, but something to consider.  
    - Balance of synchronous and asynchronous participation mechanisms to meet the needs of a globally distributed trainer community
        - This group can and should have a more articulate plan for keeping in touch with the trainer community, especially a way to listen. Especially keeping in mind that more than half of trainers don't atend trainer meetings. 
    - Projects with core team? e.g. [piloting alternative Instructor Training schedules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/104)
        - Could we assign a larger information gathering project re: understanding the ways IT is currently run to the core team?
        - What are timeline restrictions
        - This is partly in relation to as issue Jeff created. It would be useful to have a conversation when everyone is here.
    - Karen: I'd like to suggest that I get a standing timeslot at these meetings to keep up to date with things from the Core Team. 
    - Karen's Updates
        - We are having issues with getting instructors to teach. I've been concerned about instructor motivation because teaching online isn't as much fun. we have a core team working group that will be working on this. 
        - Kelly has a project coming up in Q3 re: communications with our trainees 
        - Karen will be working on an Equity, Inclusion, and Acessibility Bonus Module in Q3 
3. FYI / delegate (did not get to these)
    - [update rules?](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/102)
    - [placeholder proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/103) to update governance
    - [collaborative drafting of required report to EC](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/89)
    - [draft of required report to EC for review](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/90)
