# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2021-10-11 23:00UTC

**Present**: S. Brown, A. Basu, A. Charbonneau, M. Crowe, J. Oliver, K. Word
Regrets: K. Barnes

1. Core Team Updates
    * [Cancellation policy PR](https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/pull/760/files)
        - Changed to "excuses which may be deemed ineligible"
        - Could remove timezone entirely if we want to recognize that an error of *intentionally* selecting a time zone that is impractical and then finding out that it really doesn't work is still basically an error.
            - Arin: if folks can flag early on that they made a mistake, reasonable for training organizers to assign them a different spot. If they complete some XX% of the training, then drop off, we could take a harder line.
            - Sarah: agree with changes; this is better than what we have and we can change it later if we get a lot of feedback
    - Additional roles added to [data spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11_RwrplnO5HvG5wrXJa3R7fw3DVDlHtB2mX8x1_JnFo/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Upcoming Trainer meetings agenda
        - Karen: remind trainers leadership that it can use Trainers meeting as needed
        - Sarah: Proposal for an ~October~ November Trainers meeting to be used to get more feedback on checkout, lesson maintenance, and teaching demo matters (see 4. Upcoming Proposals, below); could use second November meeting for this topic.
        - Alycia Crall on October 21 to talk local communities
            - Response to current interest by the trainers community
        - Danielle Sieh on November 4 to talk workshop admin FAQ (after discussion time)
            - Danielle presented set of questions to Core team that overlaps with questions that trainers often receive
    - Trainer Training will be on November agenda :) 
    - Report to Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI) will be made available to Trainers Leadership
        - Does anyone want to review pre-submission?
    - Curriculum release
        - Does this group want to formally approve?
            - relation to in progress maintenance policy
            - Arin: I don't think this group needs to formally approve
            - Mark: What would we be doing as "formal approval"? Could we have a paragraph that describes how you've taken it to the community, revised it X number of times.
            - Karen: I could provide a summary of the process of revising the curriculum
            - Mark: We just need to sign off on the _process_ rather than the actual curriculum itself
            - Sarah: Do we want Karen to submit a proposal that is a summary of the process?
2. Report to EC
    - [report for approval](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/133/files)
    - Sarah has finished all the things!
    - In the interests of time, ask to read asynchronously and approve PR.
    - Arin: have already approved. Nicely done, nothing to add.
    - related note: used GitHub api to pull issue information and closed some completed issues, should I share the code?
    - Sarah: used GitHub API to pull info down. Should we add this code to the repo or is this unnecessary?
        - We have been using issues for all proposals. Instead of manually tabulating them have used API to generate markdown links for each issue and put them in the relevant section of the document. 
        - Jeff: yes! Put them in there, would be cool. 
    - meeting with lesson program governance subcommittee representatives (Sarah Stevens and Masami Yamaguchi) next week (hopefully)
3. Trainer Renewal
    - Document _Link redacted_.
    - [Funretro](https://easyretro.io/publicboard/2IWW6qwJUhh57gvxRdCtfzPjlPw1/820c10c3-e2b6-440f-ae8b-d2c7f0b4277a)
        - Karen: Community wants to see requirements dropped to 1 instructor training event (or equivalent) and 2 demos (or equivalent) to about 20-25 hours. Talked to Membership and they say it should be OK. May be organizing Membership requirements as a separate process. Reduced requirements may be a risk to sustainability, but community of folks who provide lots of volunteer time should be able to sustain this. Will need to think about how to respond to drop in participation if that happens.
        - Jeff: sounds like there may be a possibility where there is a divergence between requirements for whatever we're calling a trainer in good standing and membership requirements
        - Sarah: they've always been sort of different, but this was wrapped into the Trainer Agreement. Now we are completely separating them instead of having them muddled.
        - Jeff: just having gone through this, Platinum membership says you get a discount of $5000 for a Trainer in good standing. Will it be diverging?
        - Karen: Yes, this will make it more explicit about requirements / membership agreements. Membership will need to decide on how to evaluate this: looking backwards (workshops taught) or looking forwards (workshops to be taught).
        - Arin: Also people can move, but memberships do not
        - Mark: So new requirement is 1 workshop, 2 demos, and a few meetings?
        - Karen: Yes
        - Sarah: What about rewarding people who teach outside of membership?
        - Mark: Do we recognize people who do four workshops and 8 demos?
        - Sarah: Trainer incentive doesn't have to be the same as trainer certification
        - Karen: We are actively working with Core team on trainer incentives; do we give trainers seats for teaching beyond the requirements?
        - Sarah: Next steps are...update document and ratify?
        - Mark: discussion of what is required to be certified, that is clearly with our remit. Are incentives within our remit? We can do recognition incentives, but we aren't in a position to offer seats.
        - Sarah: yes, we are separating the two. **Note: when we ask them to ratify the new certification renewal process, we also have to modify our powers and responsibilities to note that it's ratify trainer renewal not Trainer Agreement.** Agree that incentives come from Core Team and not us. Maybe we note in communications that we have heard this request but it is beyond the scope of this thing.
        - Amanda: On the incentives thing: would it be easier to convince people that it's a good idea if we gave them one spot for each workshop above the minimum? 
        - Karen: Will start high and go from there
        - Sarah: Is this the last time we need to discuss this then it goes to community?
        - Karen: Will update language then pass it by Trainers Leadership
        - Sarah: What is ratification process for this document. Should be in the document itself. Should check record of what last one used. Might have put something in the document
        - Karen: Will check this before sending it to Trainers Leadership for review
4. Upcoming Proposals
    - [Update leadership minutes approval process](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/132)
        - We still have June minutes that are waiting for approval. Suggest we change the process slightly so we don't have stale minutes lying around. Proposal is to update the language so it is after 1 month if no one has done anything and they have been approved by anybody?
        - Who likes? Arin, Mark, Sarah, Amanda. Approved!
    - [use 2nd November meeting](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/130)
        - Sarah: Discuss all related community/curriculum/maintenance things that we haven't gotten feedback. Checkout process, subcommittee for approved demo lessons, etc. Want to get feedback from community. Will structure questions. Do we want to use a meeting for that purpose?
        - Mark: Icebreaker/discussion question was really effective last time. We don't normally do that. Maybe we could pick things off and use them during the warmup period. 
        - Sarah: Like that idea too. Not sure what exact questions make sense. Make note that we want to pick one question to be an icebreaker.
        - Arin: important for online and zoom based trainings -- many people remain silent. Gives them a good shakeup to contribute something.
        - In favor? Mark, Jeff, Arin, Amanda. Approved!
5. FYI: 
    - [various PRs](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls)
    - Lingering Trainer meeting minutes and other PRs. Should we make a proposal for Trainer meeting minutes?
    - Karen is a little squeamish about Trainer meeting minutes. How many Trainers know we do these?
    - Sarah: At one point we had talked about having minutes without names, but there definitely are names. Should the whole Trainer community know that there are published minutes with names? Do all trainers know their comments with attribution are going to GitHub?
    - Sarah: Maybe this is a discussion for later
    - Other PRs need to be merged..
6. Election timeline 
    - Mid November: The Core Team Liaison identifies a point of contact for the election. This person may be the Core Team Liaison or any Trainer not standing for election.
    - Early December: Elections announced, Self-nominations open
        - For our next meeting, we need to have structured how self-nomination will work.  
        - Karen: My job to look at this. There may be things to discuss because there may be issues, we didn't stagger terms
    - Mid January: Self-nominations close, entries posted, dedicated Trainer meeting held to introduce candidates
    - Late January: Trainers vote
    - March 1: Responsibility transferred to new Members
        - Mark: So we will continue to meet until the handover meeting
        - Sarah: New Trainers Leadership starts on March 1
        - Karen: Isn't there a long-ish holiday season in Australia?
        - Arin: Mid-November until second week of January everything closes down
        - Up until 26th of January (Australia Day!), folks are generally on vacation
        - Sarah: Self-nomination in January might make this tight
        - Mark: Should be enough given early announcement
    - Remaining questions have to do with building community among Trainers which is compatible with what we still have to do. 
