# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2021-09-13 23:00UTC

**Present:** Amanda Charbonneau, Sarah Brown, Jeff Oliver, Arin Basu, Karen Word, Kelly Barnes
Regrets: Mark Crowe

1. Core Team Update
    - [makeups & cancellations policy draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P1bdgIR6y8CMJX_iELRW7P15I2nzpWJ7kaOszHum1Dk/edit)
        - Put more onus on Trainers to request makeups to avoid trainees having the burden of asking as we know only some people would ask.
        - We need to create a system people won't just game, but we want to be nice.
        - Sarah: Can you make it clearer what you are putting on to the Trainer and taking off of the trainee?
        - Karen: The main thing is the responsibility to contact the core team.
        - Amanda: I thought most of it read fine. For the list of eligible excuses, I feel like you should write them so they tell people what to do. I think the short list of examples is fine. If you find people that are abusing the list, we should just have a chunk in the code of conduct to address people who are jerks.
        - Sarah: Keep examples, but add if a trainee makes a good faith attempt...
        - Karen: If the Trainer feels like the trainee has made a good faith attempt to attend most of the training...
        - Arin: We need to qualify incompatible time zone selected. If they have signed up for an incompatible time zone and attend at least session vs. if they don't come at all, meaning they misunderstood the timezone. People don't always understand the timezone incompatibility.
        - Karen: I recommend we come back to this. It does matter. The decision about whether they retake part of the training or retake the whole training will still be on the core team. If we have no shows, the seat is forfeited. If it was an accident, we will probably let it go though.
        - Amanda: Timezone is under ineligible excuses.
        - Karen: What Arin was saying is that it should only be ineligible if it was on purpose.
    - Communications project: considering abolishing workshop websites for IT, pre-workshop reading assignment ("The Science of Learning")
        - We aren't going to talk about this today, but I'd like to give a heads up.
        - Why do we have Trainers set up a workshop website? Do we need it?
        - Amanda: I think we should remove the day 1 homework (the readings).
        - Karen: It is conditional. We can talk about this further.
        - Jeff: I like the workshop website.
        - Sarah: Can the core team ask the infrastructure team, can it be made easier to update the schedule on the website?
2. [Report to EC](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/89)
    - [WIP PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/133)
    - Once complete, sarah will also convert to a pdf & e-mail, but the md version can stay public
    - Sarah will outline what's missing
    - What else is needed?
        - Everyone was supposed to summarise what they worked on so far
        - Jeff: I didn't do much, but work on trainers meeting cancellation guidelines
        - Karen: The EC still wants to hear about the work this group is doing
    - Plans for the future
        - Any ideas?
            - Amanda: Mostly trying to sort out what we want Trainers to do. We have a bunch of issues of what we should be figuring out and who is responsible for them. It might be good to note that we put out requests to join little committees and we didn't get a lot of response.
            - Sarah: The relationship between this group and the Trainers at large. Making sure we are meeting their expectations.
3. ~~Trainer Agreement~~ Trainer Certification Expiry/Renewal
- [Prologue/rationale](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cgm1sNVHSn3y_69LArALEyjSLI0pgNpSGW_ye9I1TDo/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Two motivations: keep Trainers current and keep our community running.
    - Two kinds of Trainers: those through memberships and those who aren't
- [Amended suggestions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PdLZhRU9ldwKsUMkUMkbsTC0jAxRJhs6Y1WSvrtBRKk/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Updated to add some of Sarah's suggestions. If someone doesn't meet the expectations, their badge expires. They don't get to choose to continue. We need to create a procedure for renewing your badge.
    - Sarah: Timing questions?
    - Karen: If you've been active for the past year, you are renewed for the following year
    - Amanda: I've read this a couple different ways. Does this apply to me (as someone who has done stuff) or someone who hasn't done things and want to fix it.
    - Karen: Both.
    - Amanda: Is there a column C for people who don't do either thing?
    - Karen: Yes. We actually have procedures for that already, but we should make sure they are aligned. [Trainer Alumni Status](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-alumni-status)
    - Amanda: I like how simple it is. How long is expired?
    - Arin: This signals that there is a system that tracks. So compared with what we have now, does it create more overhead?
    - Karen: This is where the survey comes in that I proposed last time. We ask them what they have been doing.
    - Arin: Should we not remind people or warn them if they are not meeting expectations?
    - Sarah: My gut response is that people are adults and can keep track of their own. If it is easy to automate, OK, but otherwise I don't think its a good use of core team time.
    - Arin: In principle yes, but because its an institution, we need to realize people may slip. It's about kindness.
    - Sarah: The compassion comes in in the check process.
    - Amanda: In every other organization that I've volunteered in that has a requirement, I have been in charge of tracking my own time. They compile it at the end and tell me if I have met requirements or not. It may be useful and low maintenance if we had a google form where you could add the things that you have done in the year. You could send an automated message to ask people to add to it.
    - Arin: You do have a form to submit that is checked in their portfolio. Can we build something to alert people if they are slipping?
    - Sarah: How many people fall into this?
    - Karen: I don't think its a huge amount of work. Will people feel gently reminded or harassed?
    - Amanda: I didn't typically feel harassed in other places I've volunteered.
    - Sarah: Could it be tied into when Maneesha sends the email to sign up for things?  
    - What are we talking to Trainers about on Thursday?
    - What are we going to expect people to do? Or do we want to take it to the community and ask?
    - Amanda: I'd like to hear what other people think is a reasonable amount for the year.
    - Sarah: I'm interested in that but hesitant. Are we just setting people up to be angry?
    - Karen: We have the rationale to maintain a certain level because we need a certain level of participation to run the community.
    - Amanda: I think the outcome we will find is that different people want different things.
    - Arin: Sometimes it becomes difficult for different timezones and regions to have opportunities. The language we use needs to be cautious and deliberate. They need to be localized.
    - Sarah: We will always have "or equivalent".
    - Karen: Maybe we should talk about the units again with people.
    - Sarah: What if we do a vote on how many people like units. I like them better than or equivalent, because I think it is clearer.
    - Jeff: I don't have a problem with hours necessarily, but I wonder if it raises the spectre of edge case jerk. I could easily do 2 demos a month (or 4 a month) and then I don't have to do any Instructor Training.
    - Amanda: What I don't like about units is that I don't know what they are. I like hours because I know what an hour is. I know what that means without asking clarification. If we use words people know, they may be more receptive. You need to do 48 hours but at least 8 of them need to be Instructor Training.
    - Sarah: I'm intrigued to see if that is the problem people had. Maybe we can do an anonymous poll or silent etherpadding to see what people think.
    - Sarah: I can do AM meeting but not PM.
    - Amanda: I can do PM meeting but not AM.
    - Karen will borrow from the suggestions doc and add to the prologue doc. I will send it to you tomorrow but I will send it tomorrow around now.
