# Trainer Leadership Meeting 2021-06-14 23:00UTC

*Present:** Kelly Barnes, Arin Basu, Sarah Brown, Amanda Charbonneau, Jeff Oliver
Regrets: Mark Crowe, Karen Word

1. Proposals to start projects:
    - [Demo lessons subcommittee](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/83)
        - Proposal to create a committee to decide on demo lessons
        - First task: pilot new starting places. This is particularly important 
        for Library Carpentries curricula where lessons often start with long 
        bodies of text.
        - Another opportunity for someone to earn units toward active status
        - Jeff: Do we know who put the list together before?
        - Sarah: I don't know how that list came to be. As maintainers, when 
        people have asked if they can use a lesson, we have said sure and 
        sometimes we add it to the list. The current maintenance load of the 
        Instructor Training Curriculum is large and they get behind. 
        - Arin: I like the idea of having Trainers on a sub-committee to decide 
        this.
        - Amanda: I like this, but I am wondering if this overlaps with the 
        proposal I am working on?
        - **Approved**
        - Sarah: I will take on the next steps of announcing that this 
        committee will exist and recruiting people for it. 
    - [IT curriculum maintainance policy](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/82)
        - Karen notes: people have been asking when the current updates will 
        be merged. [I would like to inform and engage the Trainers community], 
        but I think we should probably ask Leadership to approve that step.
        - Proposal to create a policy for how we maintain the Instructor 
        Training Curriculum. Our current approach is just to follow our gut, 
        but it is a good idea to start to become more explicit about what we do 
        and how we do it. Also helpful for onboarding new maintainers.
        - Amanda: Yes, I think writing down what we do is a good idea. Who are 
        the maintainers right now?
        - Sarah: Right now it is me and Tim Dennis and a bunch of core team 
        members help.
        - **Approved**
        - Arin: I'd also like to propose that the policy might need to be more 
        visual (e.g., flow chart, etc.)
    - [minutes sharing ](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/88)
        - Amanda: Based on Karen's conversation with core team infrastructure 
        people, I removed the word policy and replaced it with procedure. I 
        rewrote some parts to make them sound less policy-y. Open minutes by 
        default. Redactions only in special cases. Added in that we could 
        redact details or subjects. Added if there is a Carpentries policy, 
        that takes precedence. 
        - Jeff: Does platform matter? How critical is it that we have a private 
        intermediate version of the minutes that are not on CodiMD but before it 
        gets to GitHub?
        - Amanda: I have already taken out the section on platform specificity. 
        I don't need there to be an intermediate step. I just wanted to make it 
        clear that we can't redact something once its in GitHub.
        - Jeff: I want to make sure folks are comfortable with the minutes
        redaction workflow. 
        - Arin: I support the proposal to have an intermediate document so that 
        we can look at it before it goes onto GitHub.
        - Sarah: We already have a process for reviewing on GitHub. What I 
        would prefer is that before we take notes, we say that this should be 
        private and take the notes in a separate place. 
        - Arin: CodiMD may be getting renamed.
        - Sarah: This is the Carpentries instance so it will only change if the 
        Infrastructure team changes it. Take home: We are going to redact so 
        few things, that we can do it before we take the notes in the first 
        place. 
        - **Approved**
    - [Refine/update trainer meeting rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/102)
        - Add an implementation section to the proposal template
        - Also add an example of things we think might happen 
        - Add our Trainer Leadership roles and a procedure for asynchronous 
        approval. If we do this, it should come with a list of what powers we 
        want to do do asynchronously vs. what needs to happen in a meeting
        - Amanda: Are you asking us to actually discuss asynchronous vs. 
        synchronous or are we approving first?
        - Sarah: If we approve this motion, then we will discuss asynchronous 
        vs. synchronous.
        - **Approved**
        - What do we want to be able to do asynchronously? 
        - Amanda: Anything we've discussed once and we are just fixing should 
        become a thing we can approve asynchronously.
        - A proposal that has been discussed at least once can be approved 
        asynchronously, but any member of the leadership team can ask to 
        bring it back to a meeting for discussion. 
        - Sarah: I was thinking about this in terms of our list of 
        [powers and responsibilities](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md). 
        - Jeff: I think we have safeguards built into our current process.
        - Sarah will write up the pull request.
2. Trainer Agreement
    - update from mark/ working group
    - Karen notes: regarding updates for this year, we need to move away from 
    an "agreement" and towards some combination of expectations and eligibility 
    for maintaining a badge. Community Initiatives wants us to have a formal 
    "volunteer agreement" for all community participants, so that will be the 
    only "agreement." I'm not sure how membership agreements that include 
    Trainers will work into all this yet, but that can be addressed separately
    by membership.
     - In the past, our record keeping has been inadequate to look back on 
     Trainer activity, but I think at this point we probably can if you want us 
     to. 
     - Goals to keep in mind: 
         - Inclusivity & value for all contributions
         - Fairness and recognition for Trainers who are active
         - Accuracy of capacity estimates to plan Instructor Training
         - Creating a model for other sub-communities to support sustainability 
         and scaleability of The Carpentries overall
     - Core team will be creating a volunteer agreement per conversations with 
     our fiscal sponsor. 
    - Ideally we would have a draft by the July Trainer meeting so we could get 
    the process done in time to schedule 2022 Q1 events 
    - If no one is interested in participating, we could proceed and point to 
    the fact that we sent an email and no one responded. 
    - Amanda: The draft by the July meeting is the draft of the new agreement? 
    I have a lot of feelings on this and would like to work on it. 
    - Sarah: Let's proceed with drafting with or without other Trainers' 
    support. 
    - Amanda: Mark asked for Trainers who want to work on the process, not on 
    the agreement itself
3. FYI/ delegate
    - [placeholder proposal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/103) 
    to update governance
        - trainer meeting schedule is ours, but agenda is for the whole 
        community...what are we doing in practice? what do we want?
        - Karen notes: I've just sort of taken over the Trainer meetings 
        recently. That's fine (with me), but it doesn't have to stay that way. 
        A main goal for listing this as a power is to have sustainable 
        oversight in the event that Core Team support is no longer available in 
        the future.
    - [collaborative drafting of required report to EC](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/89)
        - created a draft and added this to the August meeting.
    - [draft of required report to EC for review](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/90)
        - In September we will approve what we have agreed on.
4. Next Meeting
    - projects with core team? eg [piloting](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/104)
        - Jeff: From the [Powers & Responsibilities Document](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md), 
        one of this group's powers is "Propose changes to Core Team policies 
        and procedures related to Instructor Training"
            - Warrants brief discussion of the piloting proposal intention
        - IT team meets weekly, we can ask for small things that can be done
        - Maneesha does most scheduling, would need to coordinate with her on 
        that
        - also a whole core team weekly meeting
        - typically last two weeks of a quarter; mainly for large cross team 
        coordination items
        - Arin: Kelly can you advise on the size of projects that can be done
        - Kelly: exact scope can be made on the fly
5. Other topics
    - Amanda: how to update pre-workshop surveys?
        - Kelly: not for a while, it can be shared with the core team. ideas 
        can be sent via e-mail or slack, to Kelly
        - Kelly works on the IT survey and development
        - Most are moved to typeform, but IT is in progress of moving.  Once 
        it is updated the dashboard will be too
        - Amanda: I found reference to something that has been removed from the 
        curriculum
