# Trainer Discussion Meeting  Thursday June 1

## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)  x = present
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T07&p1=224

- X Maneesha Sane
- X Kari L. Jordan 
- X Anelda van der Walt
- X Sue McClatchy
- X Karen Word

## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T15&p1=224

- X Rayna Harris
- X Erin Becker
- X Christina Koch

## Apologies
- Mark Laufersweiler (ton ravel: Conference Attending OSF workshop) 

# Agenda

## Discussion of past training events

- 30 April - 2 May, South Africa (in person): Kari Jordan, Anelda van der Walt, Aleksandra Pawlik
    - Kari:  1st time doing instructor training.  Good to work alongside Anelda & Aleksandra, split up load.
    - Anelda invited current instructors to join and share their experiences with new instructors
    - Challenges not related to teaching, participants, etc.  Etherpad crashed, spotty wifi.
    - As expected people may have been a little tired at the end (2.5 days)
    - Anelda: Did training in 2016, only 11/23 checked out, brought them all back together to see how the experience was.  Connected them with the new instructor training
    - Large group: 28/30 came (1 person in and out; 1 canceled last minute)
    - PR/discussion participation has already started
Having experienced instructors helped a lot to share their own experiences
    - Experienced instructors have been voluntarily mentoring new ones, walking them through all steps of running a workshop
    - Kari was great!  So interactive.  Every lesson became an opportunity for people to talk to each other.
    - Aleksandra did the 2016 training, coincidentally got to come back for 2017.  Good experience for her and for instructors to see her return
    - Very positive, supportive environment.   
Shared feedback on giant white paper on wall with new and old instructors along with trainers
    - Karen: How do the community building efforts work? Anelda: Things like open science, reproducible research isn't widely talked about.  After a two day workshop you may not be able to adopt what we've taught.  Running workshop is connected with buiding a community.  Doing study groups sponsored by Mozilla Science Lab.  Running since 2015 with some ups and downs.  New organizer got things going again.  Uni. of Venda created a Whats App group to communicate and share resources.  

- Buidling community in Latin America.  In Mexico, taught SWC workshop in January.  Some will be joining instructor training in August.  Issues: Economic problems 
    - Put in touch with Andy South who is running workshops in Latin America
    - And Hugh Shanahan and team in terms of CODATA-RDA workshop

- May 4-5, Federal Reserve Board (in person): Karen and Maneesha
    -    Karen: Everyone there was very excited and energetic. Also very exhausted - instructor training was part of "Week of Carpentries" --- SWC and DC workshops earlier in the week. Turned everything into an activity to keep fatigue level low
    - Never worked with web-based contents - used to slides
    - Federal Reserve Bank have been taking a lead on getting Carpentries aboard over the past 2 years
    - Maneesha: The week was very long and would like to think about how to do that differently
    - People were traveling from all over and had to make best use of the opportunity when everyone was together
    - They are taking a lead on developing and economics-based Data Carpentry

- Question about slides: Maneesha thinks about this a lot - do people share the lesson material - scroll through e.g. or how do people do this?
    - KARI: If there's an exercise - put it in the etherpad. If there's a diagramme, open all the diagrammes at the begining of the day in various browser tabs and just show that when the time is ready

- May 4-5, Library Carpentry (in person): Belinda
no update

- May 18-19, Stanford (in person): Erin and Karen
    - Karen: Very different group of people from the Federal Reserve Bank.
    - Nice to see how Erin did the training
    - Participants asked lots of questions and challenged the materials etc in awesome ways
    - Erin turned a lot of the conversations into opportunities to get people's Pull Requests on lessons done in class. It showed people how easy it was to do the PRs 
    - Nice to run the two workshops back-to-back to compare.
    - Challenges- had to work hard to get buy-in from one of the people. Remember to ask lots of questions to help the person understand what about the material or concept is hard to understand.

- May 22-23, University of Florida (in person): Kari
    - Kari: Challenge was around mental models. There were still people struggling with the concept when they gave feedback on the stickies. More examples for mental models may help. Kari gave extra examples during the section.
    - Creating an inclusive environment - should create more strategies and opportunities to do this. Should recruit and retain members of under-represented groups. They were very interested in that.
    - 1 Faculty member and postdocs and postgrads. Very interested in the pedagogy. Thai women were very excited to see a woman trainer. 
    - Kari was the only trainer, Francois helped but isn't qualified yet.
    
## Upcoming training events
- June 26-27, Space Telescope Institute (on line): Maneesha, Rayna, and Jeff
- Additional July-August Trainings
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10qr987YT9qYi0NGO1sJhe3OHkIL70bbqtUbJNvhfC58/edit#gid=1698063111
