## Summary
In this meeting, we discussed past and future instructor trainging workshops. It had the feel of the mentoring sessions where people brough different ideas to the table for discussion. Much of it centered around the online versus classroom enviornment for teaching. There were suggestions for how to prepare before a workshop and what to do during to help things go smoothly.  

## Attendence

Etherpad users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html

This Etherpad will be archived and publicly available.
_____________________________________________
Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha) 
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T07&p1=224
* Fotis Psomopoulos
* Rayna Harris
* Christina Koch
* Chris Hamm
* Kari L. Jordan
* Allegra Via
* Mark Laufersweiler
* Greg Wilson
* Rob Davey

Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T15&p1=224

* Belinda Weaver
* Jonah Duckles?
* Amy Hodge
* Jeff Oliver
* Kwasi Kwakwa



## AGENDA: Discussion session

## Recent training events

Naupaka and Christina: https://naupaka.github.io/2017-07-31-ttt-online/
What went well: 
- nice to broadcast message
- shuffle feature was nice to mix up groups
- Breakout rooms feature in Zoom - A++++ 
    - Strong participants, had good discussions despite being fully distributed
     - Have exercises prepped and ready to go  
     - Google doc worked well + got good feedback.  The group really went to town with formatting + organizing.  :)
     - Used a Google form for the morning minute cards
Challenges:
    - not having a whiteboard - even though zoom does have a white board option
     - difference in teaching/feedback model when there's no video recording 
     - time zones (spread across 6!)  Hard to tell people exaclty what time to come back - 
     - Suggestion: When distributed across many time zone, you can say "Let's be back in 30 minutes. When is that for you?" for each time zone.
     - just generally being distributed, not in person, etc.
Question: how did you feel? Did it make you tired, how did you work out breaks?
Christina; Yes, very tiring! Good to split day between trainers.  Prep ahead of time, good notes, etc. makes a big difference.  Keep the call going but keep cameras off during break.
Rayna: online is less exhausting because you're not traveling, in your own space.  Treat yourself to lunch - leave and get something.
Greg: do all the same things for online training.  Use travel layovers to stretch, do the same thing here.  Eat well.
Maneesha: good to stand up occassionally rather than sit the whole time while teaching online  +1


Erin and Jeff: https://jcoliver.github.io/2017-07-25-tucson-ttt/
* Hybrid local and remote
* AV Setup problems on first day. 10 Trainees on BlueJeans with headsets.
* Had enough space.

Anelda, Jason, Neal: https://jasonjwilliamsny.github.io/2017-07-13-jaxlab-instructor-training/
* What worked well
* One group of 8 people only
* Challenges
* Could not see everyone - some people were off screen, made it hard to know if they were actively particpating. And couldn't hear everyone during introductions
* Online - would it help to have a seating chat? may help to know who's who
* Christina's suggestion - draw seating chart to refer to. may be good to have this from site?
* Really lacked the social connection that happens during lunch and dinner breaks 
* Culture differences beween North American instructors and foreign insturctors and ability to connect with relevant cultures
* SUGGESTED ACTION ITEM: request feedback about what motivational and demotivational stories we should and should not tell during workshops

Aleks, Steve, and Martin: https://anenadic.github.io/2017-07-13-ttt-online/

Mateusz and Allegra: https://allegravia.github.io/2017-07-10-ttt-online-open/
What went well:
* Breakout rooms feature in Zoom
* No problems in having participants distributed
* Very nice / helpful to be together with Mateusz all the time. Good to be online the whole time with co-trainer, to have their support ongoing. 
* +1 Christina echoes this, from teaching w/ Naupaka.  So important to have someone to share the load! 
* preparing in advance. 
*  going. 
Challenges
- At some point the host was transferred to a participant
- Be aware of how activities have to be modified in online vs in person training (videoing / map drawing)
- Are there guidelines specific for online training?
- Hard to get a read on how participants feel with online training.  
- Would help to have reference on what needs to be modiffied for online or in person or distributed trainigs
- Used google doc for feedback, which did not give people the ability to give annonymous feedback
- Suggestion: have one person act as a scribe and have the instructors leave the room while people give feedback


Belinda and Jonah - QCIF - Brisbane, Australia

* Jonah tried taught a module on Thursday and Friday. The WiFI didn't hold out on Friday and Belinda had to take over the teaching.




### Upcoming training events


Rayna and Sue, Anelda, Karen: https://smcclatchy.github.io/2017-08-07-jackson-ttt/
* Zoom trial this afternoon 
* Rayna and Sue have already taught together so they have things planned out
* Would like to see lessons organized in AM/PM modules so instructors can sign up for blocks rather than small pieces of lessons


Erin and Chris: https://butterflyology.github.io/2017-08-14-UCB-ttt/
* Joint  inperson event with Lawrence Berkeley Labs and Berkeley Inst. for Data Science
* Will likely switch sections back and forth as they teach

Kari and Greg: https://kariljordan.github.io/2017-08-16-ttt-online/
* Nervous about logistics, not so much about curriculum
* Will be reviewing curriulum together
* Will set up etherpad in advance 
* Rayna: is this your own or what learners will be using?  
* Suggestion - students will read ahead to all the questions and fill everything in.  Suggestion to add questions in as you go along from another copy.
* Anelda: don't admit you don't like teaching online, how hard it is to not be connected, to not have a white board, etc.  Can sound counterproductive.  
* Allegra: Make sure to alternate between giving feedback in the etherpad/google doc and have them say their answers outloud
* Allegra: Standing up while teaching is a very useful tool, rather than sitting. +1
