

## Trainer Meeting, 1 June 2023  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230601T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230601T14) 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Kelly (NASA-tops event)

**Others attending**



* Kari L. Jordan
* Fredo Erxleben (whatever works for you) Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Germany
* Ben Chiewphasa (he/him), Columbia University
* Pao Corrales, (she/her)                                                                                	Buenos Aires, Argentina
* Luis J. Villanueva, he/him, Smithsonian
* Sher!
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Maneesha Sane
* Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* NASA tops: Day 2 discussed more about experiences & NASA tops curriculum. With year of open science there is a requirement, bringing a lot of people who aren't ready for it into the idea of doing open science. They are apprehensive about teaching people who are cautious-to-hostile to content. Reworked "sticky situations" to discuss handling this problem. Fun way to engage with what they are actually doing.
* Year of Open Science: [https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/01/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-advance-open-and-equitable-research/](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/01/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-advance-open-and-equitable-research/)
* Kari: variant of instructor training for non-Carpentries workshops is in our strategic plan. Recent EC meeting we had a sessions where they went through our strategic plan and process and provided feedback about objectives and how next strategic plan should be created and approved. PLUG: upcoming community session with EC! Quarterly discussion is a place this will be discussed. Current EC doesn't see a need for this variant -- our mission is our mission and we can broaden it but this is one objective we should omit. Listening to this (and this isn't the first time we have had an audience like this) would love to discuss this problem more with the EC. 
* [https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/tree/main/minutes/2023](https://github.com/carpentries/executive-council-info/tree/main/minutes/2023)
* [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentries+Community+Discussion&iso=20230614T2000](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentries+Community+Discussion&iso=20230614T2000)
* [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-discussions](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-discussions)
* Where does live coding fit in a general training? What is our mission and where are the boundaries?
* Luis: how familiar would you have to be with a separate curriculum? If it is very dissimilar there may be misalignment. Could cause more problems than it's worth.
* Kari: Would imagine it would mainly be taking out super-Carpentries stuff like website and spending more time on some other content.
* Fredo: agree. We started in Germy using Carpentries workshops and started changing things around, slowly diverged but still soft skills taught and way of organizing mostly workshops still applies to teaching different content. Good starting point for so many initiatives. Could teach painting with this skillset! How to set up a training that allows people to diverge and also bring back their own ideas. All variants have benefits and problems.
* Sher: love the idea and something we have discussed. Diversifying our funds/offerings. People come to us for things like this. From CT perspective we make sure we are providing these services but also getting something in return. Even if people aren't coming into Carpentries community, we are able to monetize this with minor tweaks. Seems like low-hanging fruit.
* Karen: "generally applicable" raises a lot of systemic problems we are usually privileged to ignore
* Kelly: If this is a thing we are going to keep doing, it might make sense to really define exactly what we have to do because leaving choices up to Trainers  is hard on Trainers
* Sarah S: Related to how we teach. Knowing your audience and what they want to get out of it! Giving trainees advice to ask people what their goals are so you can customize. That is sort of in there ( we do it during intro)
* Kelly: we may take this for granted knowing who we think the audience is!
* Sarah: at the beginning of the pandemic I had all this advice about teaching online  but at one session it became clear they had all been teaching online, pivoted to de-emphasize that piece.
* Karen: maybe a specific feature of dedicated events. Pooled trainings tend to be more mixed / hard to customize. 
* Kelly: need to have more communication with hosts for dedicated events
* Fredo: if we made it more modular we could assemble pieces that are easily tailored to an audience
* Kelly: some Carpentries workshops are modular like that. Some material builds, but there are some opportunities there.
* Announcements
* The Core Team will be at our annual in-person retreat June 4-8. Responses will be slow & limited to urgent matters during this time. 
* We will likely be putting out a second call for Instructor Training events in Q3 after we return from the retreat. If you know you are available and have specific dates you would like to teach, please reach out now and we will try to recruit a co-trainer to match your request.
* The current cohort of Trainer Trainees will finish badging soon! Please welcome these folks when you cross paths.
* See notes re upcoming EC meeting
* Topic of the month: upcoming changes to teaching demos (& other aspects of checkout process)
* Current roll-out target date = 24 July
* Draft PR to episodes page: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545)
* Note introductory text updates are not visible in 'live' view, only table & callouts
* Kelly: should "Recommended starting points" be "recommended episodes"?
* Sarah: top links are to episodes and not table
* Fredo: notes column could be below.
* Draft PR to checkout.md: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files)
* Draft blog post: [https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view](https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view)
* Help wanted with AMY testing

## Trainer Meeting 1 June 2023, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230601T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230601T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Karen Word    
* Zac Painter (NASA TOPS Event 1), Stanford

**Others attending**   



*  Alycia Crall (she/her), Carpentries
*  Karl Benedict (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Ann M James, (she/her/they) George Washington University (Washington DC)
* Danielle Sieh (she/her), Carpentries
* Jon Wheeler (he/him). University of New Mexico
* Murray Cadzow (he/him), University of Otago, NZ
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University
* Ariel Deardorff, (she/her), UC San Francisco
* Liz Stokes, (she/they) ARDC, Sydney AU
* Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF, Brisbane AU

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* one thing you are proud of
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* NASA-tops event 1: interesting! Not understanding what people were expecting. They have their own curricula, which is very different from ours. Ran long on a couple of sessions - some of them were very engaged with questions, although some were very NASA-tops specific. Need a better game plan for day 2 because that eats into time we need for live coding. Did not cover some carpentries things. Some were uncomfortable with live coding, were concerned about being graded on a performance. Frustrating that cameras were always off. There were times it would have been really nice to see faces.
* Even in breakouts? No they did turn them on in breakouts and then turn them off. Did bounce around rooms in breakouts. 
* Second session seems to have mitigated some of the issues. Hope they can apply what they learned to their own curricula. Natural intersections and synergies. Lots we can add to what open science looks like. 
* Did not get a lot of feedback
* Karl: biggest challenge was time and effort it took to align expectations. Started to get there towards the end, but continuous dialogue in reshaping each others' expectations. Especially live coding, and for many participants a lack of recognition of how live coding would relate to their powerpoint centric instructional model.
* Karen: This highlights the potential benefit of a more generally applicable IT curriculum, when there are groups that want IT for a purpose that is not exactly the same as a Carpentries workshop, so our curriculum isn't 100% applicable to them. E.g. you can't always go slow in a classroom setting the way you can in a Carpentries workshop, or they are teaching tools that we wouldn't recommend, like Power Point.
* Liz: Personally, the experience of live coding (especially when you think you won’t need it because you’re not expected to teach live coding in your TOPS curricula) is valuable for instructor trainees to stand in the shoes of novices who are unconfident about their ability to learn the material at hand. So I would foreground that in following sessions with this cohort. Learning to teach in a different method that you’re used to will inform what you do with your PowerPoints. Omg. Is this the beginning of a blog post? - a piece of communication that trainers can point to to reassure newcomers to Carpentries workshops, will back Trainers up in exstolling the value of live coding.
* Announcements
* The Core Team will be at our annual in-person retreat June 4-8. Responses will be slow & limited to urgent matters during this time. 
* We will likely be putting out a second call for Instructor Training events in Q3 after we return from the retreat. If you know you are available and have specific dates you would like to teach, please reach out now and we will try to recruit a co-trainer to match your request.
* The current cohort of Trainer Trainees will finish badging soon! Please welcome these folks when you cross paths.
* Proposed change to this meeting time may be implemented soon (+1h)
* Help wanted with AMY testing June 28 - July 7
* Masami's request in Slack: [https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/G7A6ED1SA/p1685574035265319](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/G7A6ED1SA/p1685574035265319)
* Topic of the month: upcoming changes to teaching demos (& other aspects of checkout process)
* Draft PR to episodes page: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545)
* Note introductory text updates are not visible in 'live' view, only table & callouts
* Zac: Related question: community college partnering with stanford. Will do some Carpentries things for them. Will do live coding as a skill, maybe a 45-minute data ecology in R, have them do an independent practice teaching demo. One question was where should they do their demo? How to pick a lesson for that? Sent them the original table for trainers. This table looks similar. Being able to tell someone an episode is ineligible is important. Will stress that we don't want them to stress over 5 minutes. Might do 5 or 4 or 6, won't cut people off, just keep going. Staying in a "flow state" as important for teaching.
* Jake: worry about people overpreparing 
* Murray: would be more comfortable if we could choose where they start in the episode, to cut down on timing practicing rehearsing exactly 5 minutes, keep it a bit live. 
* Jake: concern there is a lot of the episodes are good start points because they start with clean slate but create dependencies within the episode.
* Mark: in a workshop they know what they are preparing. If someone is practicing those 5 minutes very carefully maybe that's a good thing. Don't think you can practice out bad habits. If they are not observing our techniques we will still see that.
* Jake: agree it won't interfere with assessing carpentries teaching principles. Because time to present is minimal it doesn't make it unpredictable. I wonder if we tell them it may not be 5 minutes, but we will cut you off when you finish?
* Murray: same idea with the starting points. As Trainers we know we will start at the beginning but the idea for the learner that they could be dropped other places makes it harder to focus on the first 5 minutes
* Ariel: uneasy saying one thing and doing another or making it unclear. It should be very straightforward. What are we trying to do? They are demonstrating that they have spent time with our curriculum and incorporated our teaching practices. If they practice the full episode and teach 5 minutes, even if they still have a really well-orchestrated performance they will still get something out of it. Want them to demonstrate what we want them to demosntrate.
* Karen: ok to iterate if it doesn't work out
* Karl: maybe instead of picking a lesson, have a smaller set of episodes that are explicitly the menu we would choose from
* Liz: Couple of ideas: 1) It might be more that we cull from the recommended starting points any episodes that encourage waffle or a lot of talking explaining before getting to the live coding 2) Any changes to the sign up process? A form with validation on recommended starting points could solve the trainees preparing the wrong/ineligible episode problem.
* No changes to signup yet. We are hopeful that someday we will not be using Etherpad for this anymore... but not yet!
* Draft PR to checkout.md: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files)
* Draft blog post: [https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view](https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view)
