

## Trainer Meeting, 20 April 2023  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230420T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230420T14) 

**Others attending**   



*  Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, United States
*  Brynn Elliott The Carpentries 
* Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries 
* Trisha Adamus (she/her), University of Wisconsin - Madison
* Mark Laufersweiler (he/him) / Univ Oklahoma LIbraries
* Zhian Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries, PDX, USA
* Annajiat Alim Rasel
* Hao Ye (he/him), University of Florida
* Aleks Nenadic, she/her, Software Sustainability Insitute, Uni of Manchester, UK
* Anelda van der Walt, Talarify, South Africa
* 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 


### Agenda:



* **Topic of the month: Accessibility check-in with Brynn**
* Slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vWYEa1i0oxhUhFc23tVSz7ur9hOL65m3SY-HKPPOG74/edit#slide=id.g22a62079dd8_0_121](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vWYEa1i0oxhUhFc23tVSz7ur9hOL65m3SY-HKPPOG74/edit#slide=id.g22a62079dd8_0_121)
* accomodataions process: [https://carpentries.org/eia/](https://carpentries.org/eia/) takes you to form that helps to request accomodations for any event in The Carpentries. Carpentries will work with host institution to implement
* apparently zoom is trying to get sl interpreters
* Mark: we do not have students ask for accomodations because a lot of people do not feel comfortable requesting help. Is there a way that we can avoid this?
* Brynn: yes, this is something that universal design will help with, but with situations like SLI, this really needs a form. The form is also intended for people who are not associated with the institution.
* Anelda: in SA we have load shedding problems and things like screen readers and technology are not the solutions for us. 
* Brynn: We are working towards an approach to address these issues in the future
* Anelda: the things that would make things work for us are not relevant for you because we are not the people who are supporting the carpentries. It feels like nothing can be done.
* Brynn: but we want to support the communities in Africa and we are working towards this
* Anelda: in a lot of places the infrastructure is not set up to developed standards. How do you support the instructors so that they do not feel like they are failing?
* Brynn: as these issues come up, we can add them to our checklists and that can help the processes.
* Anelda: After nine years, even with the improvements, I still feel alienated here because nothing has changed.
* Karen: Problems like this are the most demoralizing and demotivating. The vast number of them apply to our African community. There are so many potential solutions, but trying to keep track of them is difficulty in and of itself, but this is why Brynn is here. These have been going on for a logn time; they cause stress, tension, and a lot of pain. It's important for us to remember that just because this has been a problem for a long time does not make it any less of a problem. How we focus our efforts and prioritize is something that we are learning how to do better.
* Anelda: In our minds, the differences is that this is our reality. We will do Carpentries Workshops in any situations we have. The rules are getting stricter and they do not match the reality of what can actually make a difference. In terms of websites: for example, there are tradeoffs for me because I have the capacity of choosing to build a number of websites without alt text or a single website with alt text. Setting expectations on a diverse community is difficult because if you do not have input from everyone. 
* Brynn: I appreciate you saying this because it's definitely something that I have no experience with. 
* Anelda: I have been part of The Carpentries community for a long time and I am happy to contracted. 
* Kelly: thank you for btringing this into the conversation. We are going to keep listening and keep iterating on this to try to fix this. 
* Karen: what I'm walking away with: the relationship between privilidge, responsibility, and action on this. At a minimum, we can do more to better communicate this recognistion that privilige is involved to have the ability to invest time an energy, it is your responsibility to make things better, but recognise that you are working in an environment where things are not caught up yet.. (someone update this because Zhian missed it)
* As time allows: learner profiles for Instructor Training


## Trainer Meeting 20 April 2023, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230420T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230420T22)

 

**Others attending**   



*  Hrishikesh Pisal Deshmukh, hrishipisal@gmail.com
*  Karl Benedict (he/him), University of New Mexico
*  Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico, jwheel01@unm.edu
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, zkamvar@carpentries.org
*  Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries, alycia@carpentries.org
* Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF, Queensland
* Brynn Elliott The Carpentries 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 


### Agenda:



* Meeting 2 question: among people who are present, how many would be able to attend if this meeting were held 1 hour later (UTC; so rather than moving an hour earlier at the next time change it would move back to this time)It  would be best if the meeting starts one hour late

Introductory notes:

- being more sensitive to hidden accessibility issues. Disengagement can happen for many reasons including not being able to follow due to accessibility challenge. 

- universal design is starting to be something I can absorb into practice. Part of my thought process

- not one way to do accessibility. Things that work for some don't work for others. Video tutorial with captions will be great for people who learn that way. 

- making materials available more than 24h in advance. Not only practicing that but communicating regularly with others who are leading programs.

- how many things we do when accessibility issues become universal design. Every workshop we run someone uses captioning. Run everything through color-blindness filters. People are much better at using microphone not because they recognize hearing problems but because there are people joining on zoom. Things we probably should have been doing anyway but now that we are doing them more people are benefitting.



* Topic of the month: Accessibility check-in with Brynn
* Slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vWYEa1i0oxhUhFc23tVSz7ur9hOL65m3SY-HKPPOG74/edit#slide=id.g22a62079dd8_0_121](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vWYEa1i0oxhUhFc23tVSz7ur9hOL65m3SY-HKPPOG74/edit#slide=id.g22a62079dd8_0_121)
* Karl: is there a resource for us to be able to address a11y issues that we find in our resource?
* Brynn: The universal design principles is a good place to start. WCAG is a LOT of information, so it's good for reference, but we have also put out teaching trips and ticks for instructors such as captioning and colour contrast.
* Karl: One area where I have a more specific questions is around the congnative disabilites. UDL principles that we discuss in our IT is a really good foundation, but I'm curious if we have specific circumstances where we need to expand beyond these tools?
* Brynn: that's a fine line because if you have a specific learner that learns differently, the best way to provide support is to sit down and ask them what they need for support. Encouraging the use of helpers, making use of break time as well. Creating an enviroment that allows people to not know and ask questions. This should open the door to allowing people to feel comfortable asking for things. There is not a one-size fits all for these things. 
* Alycia: This continues to come up and I'm curiuos if the trainers have heard this. We've heard from a lot of poeple that a big part of what we teach is live coding. For some learners this is a really difficult thing to do. There are always conversations about this, but I'm wondering if is there an alternative if someone could not be engaged in the live-coding process?
* Karl: The emerging AI code assistants where someone could potentially provide verbal prompts could possibly be a future looking way to address some of these live-coding challenges. An increasing number of people working in a code based context are already going to be doing anyways. Having this could be something worthtalking about
* Brynn: one instructor I spoke with uses a "let me show you" -> "let's do it together" type method
* Jon: I've reflected on this because we taught a workshop last week where we had a learners that were prior to novice. There were a lot of barriers that were not disability related, but more related to environment. Coding environment was so new to them, it was a hurdle itself. It became a matter of backing everything up and structuring it so that everything was repeated multiple times. We were lucky because it was a small group and they all knew each other, so they were all in. 
* Karen: Ive seen a number of variations on LC that have been created in response to an audience that wants something different. I think there are a lot of options like that. Maybe we need to change the way we teach live coding in a way. When you teach people to teach using live coding, it puts the learners in the center and tears them away from the dyfunctional model of simple lecture based teaching. Starting from there is much better than starting from anywhere else. 
* Karen: I wanted to raise some of the issues that were raised in the earlier meeting: there are several communities where the standards of participation and the infrastructure is not up to the standard that we need. The idea that you are even able to begin to address a11y for an in-person event in these situations is a bit daunting. This is a challenge how we communicate these things recognising context where these digital accessibiltity does not resonate.
* Mark: with that viewpoint, that does slip into the grey area of not doing something due to no capacity vs not doing something because of you don't want to.
* Karen: there is a bit of slippery slope, but there still presents a communication challenge that slides past that objection. 
* Zhian: was thinking about this; tehre are things; Karen is right about communication challenge; one of the things we've done ; one of the specific examples in the previuos meetings is this person does not have time to add alt text to pictures or make sure color contrast is up to date; it could be an excuse but also legitimate; there is no capacity; I understand this as I hav elimited capacity to do things; when I designed The workbench, I designed it to work even if you don't have accessibility recommendations in place; it goes into that communications; if I designed differently, they would not have been able to create website due to errors; there are more baseline priorities to address; thinking about that will help us identify how to communicate better; no quick or easy solution; the fact that we have an accessibility maanger speaks to the fact htat we are thinking of this 
* Karen: if there is a takeaway, we both need to be supportive in identifying and prioritizing when it comes to accessibility; having a list of all that we can do is step one; trying to support people to look at their env and their context and identify how to be realistic to do what can be 
* Alycia: I was going to bring up something to Jon's point. We've been working with American Indian Higher Education Consortium and we are seeing similar challenges in these communities where you have people who need computer skills before the novice-level workshops. Angelique is working on providing some of the computer literacy type training events. 
* Karl: to build off the off topic: this goes back to our first workshop that we organised in 2016, as we were helpers, there wer 40 learners, and there were absolutely folks in that workshop who had an entry level comfort with their systems such that diving into the shell was a huge cognative leap for them. This is why we developed the coffee and code short form workshop that provided  a gentle introduction to computing. It's a useful model to think about the introductory introduction be it pre-work or levelling exercise that could help any and all of our participants in terms of increasing their ability to engage even where we star our novice-level learning experiences. 
* As time allows: learner profiles for Instructor Training
