


# Trainer Meeting, 4 May 2023  UTC 14:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230504T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230504T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):



* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers) - post w/Trisha April 24-27 @ UW-Madison
* Mark Laufersweiler(he/him) - post / Univ of Oklahoma Librari / Trish&Mark April 18-19 on-line
* Trisha Adamus (she/her) - post
* Mateusz (post, April 26-27)

Others attending   



*  Mateusz Kuzak (he/him), Netherlands eScience Center
* Kelly Barnes 
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech
*  Kari L. Jordan
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries
* Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries
* Karen Word (she/her) The Carpentries
* Danielle Sieh (she/her/hers) The Carpentries
* Ben Chiewphasa (he/him), Columbia University
* Sher (she/her), The Carpentries
* Annajiat Alim Rasel, Brac University
* Yani Bellini Saibene (she/her), rOpenSci, Argentina.
* Maneesha Sane 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Sarah: Had to cut a lot because people were talking to each other so much. Let things come up and addressed when they did. Very different in-person!
* Trisha: Also there was a lot of experience in the room. Full time teachers, someone in the school of education. It was nice to have those experiences in addition to Trainers
* Kelly: what did you cut?
* Sarah: probably half of every section. Always preparing to teach. Probably trimmed working with your team, launches and landings, but still covered some of the exercises. They wanted to discuss CoC quite a bit and had talked about it a lot before we got to it in Working with your Team, so skipped it there.
* Kelly: CoC?
* Sarah: how to deal with CoC issues, what you would do, what happens with reporting structure. Gave personal examples of things observed and how they were handled.
* Mark: ours was online 2-day. Split half-days. Pretty interactive group, one cancelled prior, one dental issues in the middle (too bad they were really engaged). This was the least conversation around CoC of any training. They had no questions! They were engaged but no questions. Usually people want to know what happens when you report etc. Maybe it was sufficiently clear? Talking about working with host etc.? Otherwise pretty uneventful. Learned a few things from Trish. Concept maps are tough to get involvement on that. Would like to see two bonus workshops: how to create a repository for the workshop website and on concept maps where we can dig in some. ONe of the mos valuable things I got out of training when I took it and now I use them all the time.
* Mateusz: online training for European time zones. A few issues. ONe: we showed people etherpads and asked them to sign up for discussion. Everyone found it very difficult to find their way, understand all the types of discussion sessions. Difficult to walk them through. I'm used to seeing Etherpads but for someone new who doesn't understand much about the sessions or understand local communities, fact that you have to visit other pads to subscribe to local discussions, etc it is hard. 2) when we were collecting feedback there is always someone who diesn't like icebreakers, but one person had very strong opinions and said there is no way to design an icebreaker that doesn't go sideways. It will never be inclusive enough, there will always be something wrong and it is beter not to do them.
* Mark: one I use is talking to person next to you and having you introduce them. That got railed on pretty bad because introverted people don't like to have to interact. Icebreakers are ok you have to be very careful about which type you select. Inclusivity matters -- not a hard pushback just a cautionary pushback.
* Karen: have thought about this. Maybe helpful to do it earlier rather than later, before people settle in?
* Yani: it helps to have information about people we are going to teach in advance. Info about accessibility or anything you can use to inform how you are going to handle the icebreaker. Some activity that has to do with what we are going to learn. If we will talk about concept maps probably we can find something to use during the lesson. So they don't think this is a silly activity with no reason. 
* Kelly: have done icebreakers and have had them criticized. That made it stressful to come up with new ones, then I had to review all the ways someone could read them. Like the idea of doing ones that are more relevant. Sometimes other ones are just fun, but potentially more likely to become an issue if it's not related. Also re Etherpad: we hate it too.
* Alycia: other problem with Etherpad is that archiving access freezes. We will start a new etherpad every year. Will link out to instructions in different languages and regional calls so we don't have all that content at the top. 
* Announcements
* Changes to community programming are coming! See blog post. This is where bonus content will be directed to, e.g. skill-up type sessions. [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/04/new-community-programming/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/04/new-community-programming/)
* Q3 scheduling will open soon
* Implementation of changes to Checkout rules: updates!
* [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226)
* Phase 1, Trainers roll-out
* Trainer meetings
* Emails with links to draft announcements and documentation changes
* Reminders with links to new info in pre-training template emails
* How else would you like to be informed / participate?
* onboarding meetings?
* Phase 2, Community roll-out
* Public announcement & merge documentation updates
* Immediately accept new checkout pathways for anyone in the process of checking out
* Continue to accept old checkout pathways (i.e. no welcome session) for 90 days/extensions
* Timeline: possibly June, but still not quite clear if that's going to work. Should have a better idea about infrastructure timeline within the next week.
* Please do not advertise that rules will be changing. We do not want people pausing checkout in order to wait for new rules.

Questions:

Ideas for Learner Profiles for Instructor Training



* Digital Scholarship/Humantities There tech skills are all over the place. They know what they want to teach but they themselves are between novice and practitioner. 
* Social science-oriented TA/grad student who has only experience with teaching via a directive through their faculty advisor/department with no formal training on how to teach whatsoever. As a result, felt overwhelmed and discouraged through the process! But genuinly cares about student learning, thoughtful/inclusive pedagogy, etc.
* Data Steward based at the library who want to teach worskhops as part of their job
* Research Software Engineer, based at the RSE group or Digital Competence Center who want to teach worskhops as part of their job
* Academic Librarian who has experience teaching (and was taught to teach) and with their subject area but is getting started learning coding/data science (though sometimes is lack of confidence in computational skills rather than lack of skills)
* HPC/computing cluster admin with more computer science background, less experience teaching
* Grad student in the life sciences who learned a lot from taking carpentries workshops and now wants to help others, has worked as a TA but never been taught to teach before
* Research/govt agency employees looking to build common base of skills in computing/data
* Public librarian more interested in offering digital literacy training than advanced data analysis   
* Professor who is develping a course and wants to learn more about carpentries practices and doesn't plan to complete certification or host/teach/help at Carpentries workshops but use what they learned to improve their course
* PhD candidate who informaly teaches/coches their colleagues and would like to orgnise Carpentries workshops at their University
* An employee that is new to an organisation and learning the tools that are already in place. They need a crash course on the programs being used that they may not be familiar with 
* Software engineer who has been voluntold to attend. Is frustrated that people don't always understand what they're trying to tell them, but more or less believes this is because researchers just don't care about important stuff.
* A tenured prof who was interested to check it out but comes with a prejudice that the training does not have anything significant to offer.
* International graduate student interested in bringing Carpentries style instruction back to their home country after they graduate. They want to learn more about translation of the lessons into their native lanaguage and languages other than English.
* Postdoc who needs more teaching experience on their record to get a job

# Trainer Meeting 4 May 2023, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230504T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230504T22)

Training discussion (pre and post):



* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico, jwheel01@unm.edu
*  Karl Benedict (he/his), UNM, kbene@unm.edu
* samniqueja Halsey (she/her), University of Missouri

Others attending   



*  Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries
*  Pao Corrales (she/her), Buenos Aires, Argentina
* Liz Stokes, (she/they), Australian Research Data Commons, Sydney
* Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF, Brisbane
* Arindam Basu (he/him), Universit of Canterbury, NZ


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Alycia

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Karl: did the NASA TOPS Instructor Training on Monday/Tuesday; was challenging in retrospect; tring to capture impressions; a lot of it was around expectations from us and the learners; from my perspective, I encountered a lot less familiarity with The Carpentries overall where som eof the things that we generally and safely take for granted, there was a fairly high degree that knew nothing about Carpentries or what we did or what it looked like; there was one point; would do a little teaching demo at the beginning to provide an illustration; Samniqueka did a great demo of live coding and how we do it in a technical workshop; lot of confusion when describing merits of live coding; lot less buy-in from onset of Carpentries model; clearly group that was not doing that; they were very focused on TOPS program; had to reinforce the transferability of pedagogical model and how it can be applied in contexts beyond The Carpentires curriculum; longer climb to get that buy-in on what we were talking about and what our learners were anticipating doing; suggests more explicit recurring mention or highlihgting of transferability or gernal pedagogical value would be good; some very uncomfortable with live coding; dates as data in Excel spreadsheet was more than smoe wanted to take on; didn't see themselves as coding or teaching coding in context of teaching demos; conceptual mapping of technical versus less technical content - need to highlight transferability here; not sure we were successful crossing with getting folks to think about transferring the general principles into the context of what they would be teaching; on the learner side, a more clear understanding before coming to workshop; Diana Lee in workshop clarified that learners are expected to complete Carpentries certification as deal with Carpentires; they need to embrace this; there was some clear relunctance that there was training and a checkout process that includes a teaching demo that will include Carpentries curricula materials; lost time and momentum at multiple points in workshop; would be really useful for them to engage in; teaching/feedback demos; for all of us, going into the workshop with more detailed understanding of connectivity of TOPS and Carpentries and what roadmap is; heard more about an anticipated longer term integration of TOPS curricula into community produced curricula of Carpentries; needs a better understanding of how these will engage with each other; what is the longer term connectivity
* Samniqueka: agree with what Karl said; lot of anxiety around coding if they do not know how to code; showing lessons and everything is presented; in theory, you could jsut read script adn follow along; if we had a better understanding of TOPS, we could answer their questions; same people asking same questions over and over in different ways; got to the point where people were talking about questions taking too long; expectation of what TOPS leadership wanted from us; we are teaching people how to teach, not teaching the content; the live coding was only 15% of the entire lesson; they could not get past this though; making sure you have principles of not speaking too fast, not using dismissive language, etc.; focus is on the content, not teaching 
* Karen: thanks for patience and persistence; sounds like you made most of tough situation; sounds like there are two things going on - expectations mismatch and also challenging people to figure out how to handle
* Karl: think there was a third dimensino of very different foundational familiarity with the most basic experience with Carpentries activity that is not the case for those coming into limited Instructor Training; usually someone has come to the workshop but many had not; our content does have a base assumption of some knowledge; tweeking the sequencing of lessons a little bit for a group like this
* Samniqueka: if anyone is becoming an Instructor, at least they have attending a workshop; maybe have them attend a workshop even if they come in as an observer at least;
* Karen: there are videos they could watch
* Talisha: Thank you both for taking this on last minute; sounds like you did an amazing job despite some challenges; one thing that stuck out is the challenges that are experienced when learners in Instructor Training are not familiar with The Carpentries; it helps align those expectations for the learner; what can we do to bridge that gap? like the idea of sharing a workshop video or askign them to attend a workshop
* Pao: in Latin America, Instructor Training is the door for people to get to know Carpentries; last time, we presented Carpentries instead of curriculum; pelple were more aware of what we were doing and why; if connection with TOPS will continue, for those participants would be more difficult to give demo using TOPS curriculum; maybe that is motivation for them too to be more involved in training
* Karl: that point of using TOPS curriculum was raised multiple times during the two days; the challenge is that the curriculum are still under development; we had not had opportunity to give thought or coordinate with folks with more concrete opinions; having different set of curriculum could be really challenging for demos unless we did something especially for TOPS; this would be an additional logistical layer to add
* Liz (chat): What could we-the-trainer-community do to help trainers feel more confident that instructor trainees are coming from an “informed-consent” perspective? Or is this something that Memberships could bring to the trainer community?
* Samniqueka: from learners -> how am I supposed to pick a topic if I'm not familiar with Git, etc.; mental mapping was giving them ideas on how to revise curriculum; current curriculum was just powerpoint presentation; does not have active participation; how can this be changed? we were stressing that we don't use slides; could shift their viewpoint on what they could do to revise curriculum to improve pedagogy
* Jon: wonder if there is a cultural thing that was mentioned; is this an academic environment; I coordinate membership adn we were recruiting anyone during COVID to support; came soft requirement that anyone taking training had to observe or participate in a workshop; advantage is that you know all workshops happening; when Instructor Trianing, have colleagues observe demos and instruction training; could we reach out to coordinators of workshops to have someone sit in to connect people to workshops happening for observation for an hour or two
* Karen: have some capacity issues on our workshop side
* Talisha: another part of challenge of misalignment; huge piece is that TOPS is operating off of a grant that they are in the middle of; they waited until last minute; supposed to teach in June and did not get in touch until last month; did not have opportunity to help guide their process; they found out about us through NASA Observe
* Karen: Did a communications overhaul recently but what can we continue to improve on to help ease people into so we are more confident that they are aware of what they have gotten into
* Jon: teaching with Ariel next week; 10/11; last workshop was with Karl in Feb; checkout episode while not a trainwreck, it was a lot of repetition; went 90 minutes and was stressful; what tips to work through that section?
* Karl: we had prompt at end of day one for folks doing initial review of checkout as day one wrapup; they did not do much of that; lot of questions that might have been answered if they had taken a look overnight; can run into issues if we carry material over and we do not have same end of day one kind of homework
* Samniqueka:: one thing Karl and I did, there is a section where we ask if they have any questions about checkout anad they put it in Etherpad; answered directly in pad instead of answering verbally; that might limit questions people have or repeat questions
* Liz: gave me the opportunity of new idea I have not tried before; the checout section is opportunity to go meta on Instructor training and approach it as what would get this cohort through checkout process; if you made it goal of 90 minutes; everyone can work through how they will get through checkout and how will you help each other do this; open up space to help each other through the process; opening up what questions do you have, stops us from answering questions; we're more focused on Q&A, does not necessarily fit back into curriculum or learning objectives of those 90 minutes; how would you do that if you did it this way?
* Jon: terrific idea; getting to what Samniqueka said; had questions in Etherpad and writing answers, told them to refer to Etherpad; lots of fixating on details, asking same questions over and over; your way may be more proactive to get them actively developing a plan; it's a matter of presentation of stuff that is there
* Arindam: last time we had Instructor Training here in April, ahead of tiem prepared list of slots where people could come for discussions and teaching demos and posted them directly on the Etherpad so people could have idea of timeline to develop plan for when they wante dto do these things; this really helped people because they had better direction ; Etherpad sometimes does not work so need alternatives
* Karen: have made some changes that will hopefully provide more stability of Etherpad
* Announcements
* Changes to community programming are coming! See blog post. This is where bonus content will be directed to, e.g. skill-up type sessions. [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/04/new-community-programming/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/04/new-community-programming/)
* Q3 scheduling will open soon
* Implementation of changes to Checkout rules: updates!
* Plan to rollout changes in June but this could change
* [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226)
* Phase 1, Trainers roll-out
* Trainer meetings
* Emails with links to draft announcements and documentation changes
* Reminders with links to new info in pre-training template emails
* How else would you like to be informed / participate? let us know
* onboarding meetings? happy to run sessions if they would be useful
* Phase 2, Community roll-out
* Public announcement & merge documentation updates
* Immediately accept new checkout pathways for anyone in the process of checking out
* Continue to accept old checkout pathways (i.e. no welcome session) for 90 days/extensions
* Timeline: possibly June, but still not quite clear if that's going to work. Should have a better idea about infrastructure timeline within the next week.
* Changes will be: 1 episode for teaching demo; attendance at welcome session; "get involved" step which can be a number of types of engagement (e.g. lesson contribution, community discussion, anything else but suggestions will be made)
* Please do not advertise that rules will be changing. We do not want people pausing checkout in order to wait for new rules.

Questions:

Mark: the demo episode, will we provide a list of acceptable episodes?

Karen: we have that list but we will need to point to that list in a different way to make it more useable

Mark: otherwise, some may do an episode that is not suitable for live coding

Karl: one think I notice with scheduling confusion is that the default break times in the etherpad template would benefit in being adjusted; submitted an issue for the broken link to etherpad template; is there a process for updating the template?

Karen: best practice to contact Karen b/c unofficial keeper of template; could also file an issue so others can provide input
