<!-----



Conversion time: 1.434 seconds.


Using this Markdown file:

1. Paste this output into your source file.
2. See the notes and action items below regarding this conversion run.
3. Check the rendered output (headings, lists, code blocks, tables) for proper
   formatting and use a linkchecker before you publish this page.

Conversion notes:

* Docs to Markdown version 1.0β35
* Fri Dec 08 2023 07:21:54 GMT-0800 (PST)
* Source doc: Untitled document
----->


**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting, 7 December 2023, UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231207T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231207T14) 

Attending:   



*  Christian Knüpfer, christian.knuepfer@uni-jena.de
*  Kelly Barnes, kbarnes@carpentries.org 
* Philipp Schäfer, philipp.matthias.schaefer@uni-jena.de
* Angelique Trusler, angelique@carpentries.org
* Alycia Crall, alycia@carpentries.org
* Zhian N. Kamvar, zkamvar@carpentries.org
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), sarah.stevens@wisc.edu
* Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), laufers@ou.edu, 
* Hao Ye (he/him), haoye@seas.upenn.edu
* Kari L. Jordan, The Carpentries
* Danielle Sieh (she/her), The Carpentries
* Luis J. Villanueva, villanueval@si.edu
* Karl Benedict, kbene@unm.edu
* Jake Szamosi, szamosjc@mcmaster.ca
* Late - Mike Trizna, triznam@si.edu
* Margareth Gfrerer, gfrerer.margareth@gmail.com
* Pao Corrales, paobcorrales@gmail.com
* Yanina Bellini Saibene, yabellini@gmail.com
* Angela Li, al49@princeton.edu
* Zac Painter, zp5928@princeton.edu

Apologies



* Aleksandra Nenadic (off sick)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Announcements
* Blog post: [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/12/saying-farewell-to-seven-carpentries-core-team-members/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/12/saying-farewell-to-seven-carpentries-core-team-members/)
* Disussion notes

Karl Benedict: thining about the balance between staff, community, and support. We are clearly entering a period where that has to be examined. The loss of the expertise and knowledge of the staff that are leaving is phenomenal and you all will be missed. Moving forward, the community and exec will need to work together to identify gaps and figure out how to fill them and develop a model that can support and coordinate the contributions. There will need to be a substantial rebalancing about what is staff function and community contribution in realistic terms.

Mark L: IME, Carpentries are like Librarians, don't like to say "no". As the organisation grew, the need to say "no" needed to be emphasized. We have to start thinking about how to say "no" and make sure that the decisions are transparent.

Angela L: We talked about sustainability of communities. What are tools that we can use? A lot of us are problem solvers and it was hard to sit with the grief and trying to figure out how to fix this. It's really sad to see you all go. It was a time of sitting with that grief and problem solving. Really appreciate the space to process.

Karen: same

Discussion Notes

**Group notes:**

_Left a place for questions, suggestions, concerns to be collected below the notes for each group_

Group 1

Discussed community roles and community involvement

Discussed the fragility of the membership model and difficulties getting own institutions to buy in

Group 3

Group 4

Group 5

**Questions:**

**Suggestions:**

**Concerns:**

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting Day Month 2023, UTC 23:00</span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231207T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231207T23)

Attending:   



*  Eric Jankowski , ericjankowski@boisestate.edu
* Greg Chism, (he/him/his), gchism@arizona.edu, University of Arizona
* Yanina Bellini Saibene, yabellini@gmail.com 
* Jannetta Steyn, jannetta.steyn@newcastle.ac.uk, Newcastle University
*  Ariel Deardorff (she/her), ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu, UC San Francisco 
* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, sarah.stevens@wisc.edu
* Jeff Oliver (he/him/his), University of Arizona, jcoliver@arizona.edu
* Ben Chiewphasa (he/him/his), Columbia University, bbc2129@columbia.edu
* Liz Stokes (she/they)  ARDC, liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au
* Nathaniel Porter, ndporter@vt.edu
* Mark Crowe, QCIF (he/him)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Announcements
* Blog post: [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/12/saying-farewell-to-seven-carpentries-core-team-members/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/12/saying-farewell-to-seven-carpentries-core-team-members/)
* Disussion notes

Ariel: We're really bummed to lose Karen and Kelly. I am curious about the financial model of the carpentries. It doesn't seem like it is working out. 

Karen: I'm not so familiar with the internal workings of the carpentries. From my perspective, there is a trend of hiring people on grants and keeping them. May have been overly optimistic. Our memberships do not cover a huge proportion of our costs, but maybe now they will. 

Eric: We had a lot of gratitude in our room and wondering how the geographically disperesed trainer community is going to keep in contact. The trainer community has been really valuable and we are worried about being able to continue. 

Karen: I hope it will continue and I hope trainers leadership will position itself. I know Trainers Leadership is never going to be able to do all of the community organizing and Sher! will need to decide how to keep this group moving. 

Greg: We had a lot of how did we get here talk. We have had a lot of talk about how to train instructors at the UArizona iSchool. I was the one to say Carpentries, so perhaps this is a form of future revenue. It would be nice to have a convincing argument with a past use case. 

Karen: These are the kind of community connections we were hoping to foster through Alycia's work. The burden is going to be more on the community to have these conversations. We also had a great conversation awhile ago about generally applicable instructor training. We had been thinking about trying to formalize a generalized Instructor trainng, but we hadn't gotten to that point and it will probably be on the shelf for awhile. 

Jon: There was an email to members this morning. One point was that the core team would be supporting centrally organized workshops. 

Kelly: Yes core team will be teaching one event a month. 

Jon: Does that spread people too thin? 

Maybe

Karen: The Carpentries has functioned on a small team before. I dont know that it will be easy to return. We are a different org than we were. But there is precedent. 

Ariel: One of the things I value about the Carpentries is transparency. Is there a plan for a follow up blogpost? Here is the situation. That info may be helpful to get people to volunteer. 

Karen: I haven't heard about plans for that. If you want to see it, you are going to have to shake trees and make it happen. 

Greg: Is there any plans to have community discussions about how we move forward? U of Arizona has the same thing going on. I would like to see us be more productive here. 

Mark: In paralell to this, there is the change in financial model from EC to board of directors. I understand that a big part of what they will do is look for financial sustainability. Can you comment on whether the current EC is taking this on? 

Yani: We have two governing bodies riight now, the EC and the board. I am in both. Which is a dificult. We have a meeting after this and I have a lot of thoughts. We need to have only one body. We discussed the financial situation several times, the layoffs were discussed as the last option. I think only the ED or the Executive Team can fire people (this is a detail). We have been discussing a lot how to get more memberships and grants but not only following the money. I have concerns about what happens to the Latin American community if we can only work with people who can pay.  I have a lot of gratituted for Alycia, Kare, Kelly, Zhian for all the work you have done.

Liz: I'd like to 

From Ariel (praise for posterity/personal files): I have learned so much about teaching from Karen and Kelly and this community. Also Karen’s leadership in these meetings has been a master class in running well-organized, caring, and inclusive meetings!

**Group notes:**

_Left a place for questions, suggestions, concerns to be collected below the notes for each group_

**Group 1**

**Group 2 **

**Group 3**

**Group 4**

**Group 5**

**Questions:**

**Suggestions:**

**Concerns:**
