**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting, 5 October 2023, UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231005T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231005T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):



* (post) Sarah Stevens(she/her/hers) and Grace Fishbein
* Interesting question that came up about cultural barriers and different ways of learning - Please add any resources/anwers you have here -  [https://pad.carpentries.org/2023-08-14-trainers-question](https://pad.carpentries.org/2023-08-14-trainers-question)
* Request that it would be nice to see the trainers give teaching demos - maybe community discussion?
* Anyone interested can fill in this poll in the next couple days - [https://calendly.com/d/29d-567-rr4/carpentries-community-discussion-trainer-teaching-demos](https://calendly.com/d/29d-567-rr4/carpentries-community-discussion-trainer-teaching-demos) and I’ll try to schedule one in early November.  Apologies as my availability is low this quarter and my calendly is based in my typical working hours, which isn’t ideal for this community.
* (post) Eilis Hannon

Others attending:   



*  Pao Corrales (she/her), Buenos Aires, Argentina
*  Sher! (she/her), The Carpentries, US 
* Grace Fishbein (she/her), ACENET, NL, Canada
* Hao Ye (he/him), University of Pennsylvania, USA
* Mike Trizna, Smithsonian Institution, USA
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, ON, Canada
* Kelly Barnes (she/her)
* Margareth Gfrerer, Ministry of Education, Ethiopia
* Eilis Hannon, Exeter
* Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian, USA
* Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University
* Sarah Brown 
* Mark Laufersweiler (he.him) / Univ of Oklahoma Libraries

PROMPT 

If you were to do your teaching demo over right now, what lesson would you use?

Same or different from what you used in your demo?

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Announcements
* Status renewal forms are due today! Reminder emails were sent on Tuesday.
* Upcoming community session to discuss research ideas re participatory live coding
* Tues Nov 7 17:00 UTC
* Contact host (Alycia) if you'd like to contribute but can't attend
* [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023)
* Proposed community session to model live coding
* Contact Sarah Stevens (preferably via Slack, or email if that works also) if you'd like to model a short "improv" live coding segment at a community session
* Anyone interested in giving a demo can fill in this poll in the next couple days - [https://calendly.com/d/29d-567-rr4/carpentries-community-discussion-trainer-teaching-demos](https://calendly.com/d/29d-567-rr4/carpentries-community-discussion-trainer-teaching-demos) and I’ll try to schedule one in early November.  Apologies as my availability is low this quarter and my calendly is based in my typical working hours, which isn’t ideal for this community.
* Maybe we could do these regularly? Think people would like to see these live and not just a recording.
* Jake: concerned that it could become something people feel like they have to attend before a demo, feeling like another requirement
* Hao: some of the issues with demos come from people who haven't encountered Carpentries before and lack understanding. Sometimes you want to see a demo to know what level of polish to go for, but sometimes just not knowing what Carpentries workshops are about at all. 
* Sarah S: In last workshop, people really wanted to see a Carpentries workshop. Came up several times. Wrote the best ways to get into one online, look at upcoming workhops, email host, I love observers when I am hosting in-person or virtual (probably more accessible). People used to come from Chicago to Madison. They want to see the Trainers do it, maybe something about the Trainers themselves making themselves vulnerable in this way and showing how they would teach a technical workshop.
* Trainers needed on EDT, PDT events:
*  17-18 October 9am-5pm Eastern Daylight Time
* 7-8 November 9am-5pm Pacific Daylight Time
* Topic of the month: Demos!
* Ask to repeat reasons (since 2020): [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eNqfz1oTmJ2PaBF6qSQWL0zK8qWhrnYDfqC_1ED9s60/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eNqfz1oTmJ2PaBF6qSQWL0zK8qWhrnYDfqC_1ED9s60/edit?usp=sharing)
* Sarah: I very rarely ask someone to repeat, but recently I had two in the same demo
* Eilis: Had two people in my first demo that I wanted to ask to repeat, but I only asked one because it seemed unusual. Eventually I think I made the right choice though. The person I asked to repeat got a bit muddled and had some errors in her typing. Also someone randomly showed up just to observe. 
* Jake: I've had occasionally Instructor Trainer Trainees ask me to observe to learn to return how to run a demo. Did the person introduce themsselves? 
* Eilis: Yes, they introduced themselves and wanted to see what a demo looks like. 
* Karen: Our policy is usually to tell people no, but there is trainer discretion 
* Jake: How do we feel about kicking people out? 
* Karen: Yes, its completely ok. 
* Jake: I've had people zoom bomb, randomly join and start yelling and swearing. If someone shows up and doesnt respond on mic or on dms, I remove them. I'm worried if I kick someone out, I will look like a harsh person and it will make trainees more nervous.
* Sarah: When I remove someone, I make sure to explain to everyone why I'm removing them. 
* Karen: Maybe we need a script. 
* Sarah S: I say, "Oh I'm not sure if the people in the room are comfortable being observed since they didnt' know you were coming. I'd recommend planning to join for another sessiona and contacting the host in advance to ask if you can observe, so they can ask the participants."  

Karen: do we need advice on teaching with notebooks?

Sarah B: have been teaching with notebooks and making the shift was less trivial than jupyter docs led me to believe

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 5 October 2023, UTC 23:00</span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231005T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231005T23)

Training discussion (pre and post):



* Karen Word (she/her) The Carpentries
* Erin Becker (she/her) The Carpentries
* 
* 
* 

Others attending:   



*  Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
*  Liz Stokes, (she/they) ARDC

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre/post discussion - NASA abridged event pilot w/ Karen and Erin
* Liz: Re DEI episode: recent conversation. You can quickly tell the difference between people who are conscious of making spaces more inclusive vs. taking advantage of a learning environment for themselves in a visible way. Maybe focus on that a little bit?
* have found it useful to clarify that Trainer is here to help learn some pedagogy and put it into practice. Interested in how you apply and less interested in your opinions or reaction to what we are teaching you. Encouraging people to see a difference between the content and their immediate reactions.
* Jon: re core values (
* NASA Values
* Safety
* Integrity
* Teamwork
* Excellence). I would keep these. When you look at NASA's core values they apply to building rockets. Our work is education. Those core values matter. Maybe we don't say we expect you to follow these, maybe say these are values that are relevant to any environment and are worth keeping in mind. 
* Paula: Maybe you can tie it into their core values (e.g. safety)
* Liz: what about assessment?
* Karen: can't use surveys, will contaminate our data.  Ideas?
* Liz: can set goals for the next 3 months, set a scheduler to revisit. More about empowering them to take charge of what they have learned and check in on their own. How to develop their own accountability? Empower the group to be responsible for showing each other that down the road they are still interested in applying to their work.
* Announcements
* Status renewal forms are due today! Reminder emails were sent on Tuesday.
* Upcoming community session to discuss research ideas re participatory live coding
* Tues Nov 7 17:00 UTC
* Contact host (Alycia) if you'd like to contribute but can't attend
* [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2023)
* Proposed community session to model live coding
* Contact Sarah Stevens if you'd like to model a short "improv" live coding segment at a community session
* Anyone interested in giving a demo can fill in this poll in the next couple days - [https://calendly.com/d/29d-567-rr4/carpentries-community-discussion-trainer-teaching-demos](https://calendly.com/d/29d-567-rr4/carpentries-community-discussion-trainer-teaching-demos) and I’ll try to schedule one in early November.  Apologies as my availability is low this quarter and my calendly is based in my typical working hours, which isn’t ideal for this community.
* Trainers needed on EDT, PDT events:
*  17-18 October 9am-5pm Eastern Daylight Time
* 7-8 November 9am-5pm Pacific Daylight Time
* Topic of the month: Demos!
* Ask to repeat reasons (since 2020): [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eNqfz1oTmJ2PaBF6qSQWL0zK8qWhrnYDfqC_1ED9s60/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eNqfz1oTmJ2PaBF6qSQWL0zK8qWhrnYDfqC_1ED9s60/edit?usp=sharing)
* Liz: assumed that there was always a plan for what to do with the teaching demos reports. Perhaps the act of explaining why you've asked to repeat helps to clarify why and is part of the decision making process. What can we do with these data? Interested in next steps for teaching with Jupyter notebooks. This would make a good community discussion. Grab a few people for a show-and-tell, discuss tips and tricks, then pros and cons, might be a good way to move ahead with a community-informed method. 
* Karen will connect Liz with Alycia to discuss setting up a community session about this. Relevant to broader community as well as carpentries instruction
* Paula: the form is filled at the same time for everyone. You could quantify the checkboxes but then you are mixing up reasons for people who pass and fail. If you separate them you can associate not passing with specific characteristics. 
* Jon: reading through the list, thinking about reasons, I might be on the high end of asking people to repeat. At the end of 5 minutes you know in a workshop setting what the workshop will be like if it continued. The thing that makes the decision for me is whether this person is going to have a positive experience at their first workshop if they do the same thing for 5 minutes. At my first demo I didn't pass 2 people and thought it was weird but might have just been coincidence.
*  Last demo had someone I thought was not following the lesson material. Was right on the edge. Realized later that she was following the content but changed a variable name. Couldn't find where she was for that reason. 
* Also had a person who wanted to observe. Let the person stay. Ever since then, if the zoom room is not in use I get on early and set up the waiting room so I can check if they are on the list or not. It was just distracting and stressful to have to message that person while hosting a demo, affected the learners. Maybe template language with instructions for what to do if you want to observe?
* Paula made a word cloud -- you can paste the ask to repeat text here to recreate: [https://www.freewordcloudgenerator.com/generatewordcloud](https://www.freewordcloudgenerator.com/generatewordcloud) 
* Have a demo tomorrow, have checked that all are good episodes. Last time wasn't really following the lesson more paying attention to what they are doing. Is that what you do?
* Jon: it depends. I think next time I might preface the demos by saying "give us a little signposting about where you are starting in the lesson"
* 