# Non-Carpentries training Discussion summary - 21 September 2023

**Summary of key points on the topic of creating a version of Instructor Training that targets audiences who are not interested in teaching Carpentries workshops,** from Trainer Meetings on 21 September, 2023

Note: **We have not decided whether to pursue this**. This conversation explores interest that has been expressed, and is motivating us to consider whether, where, and how to invest Core Team effort in support of this proposed goal. +1


### Pros:



* Lots of demand and need for teaching support among people who don’t want to teach workshops
    * _Note: this is reflected in the fact that many Trainers are already engaged in their own versions of non-Carpentries training in teaching practices_
* Shorter training events may expand capacity among existing Trainers and trainees
* Good advertising, people may later join as volunteers or members
* Potential to bring in new revenue from something we basically already offer, with modifications


### Cons:



* Might end up reducing number of people who become certified as Carpentries Instructors
    * _Note: trainees who choose the non-Carpentries training probably would not have served as volunteer Instructors anyway. However, reduced Trainer availability may have an impact here._
* People may have to re-take training if they want to be certified
    * _Note: this will be the case for the pilot being run for NASA_
* Might be a strain on Trainer availability
    * _Note: some Trainers seem to be already doing this anyway, but they aren’t necessarily counting it towards their Carpentries service time_
* Time to develop and maintain curriculum
    * _Note: high community interest may support this, at least temporarily_
* Potential to lose revenue 
    * E.g. if self-organised training becomes more similar to self-organised workshops, since trainees will not be certified
* Could shift us away from our core mission
    * _Note: it was suggested that this may or may not not be a con – if the global needs that drove our mission are changing, adaptation may be warranted_
* Trainers may not want to volunteer for trainings that do not build The Carpentries community 


### Ideas:



* Completely convert current Instructor Training into a modular thing, with separate Carpentries and non-Carpentries pieces that allow people to continue towards certification after taking a non-Carpentries training
* Package with a curriculum development module
* Mix-and-match smaller modules because different audiences have different needs
* Offer like workshops, including self-organised
* Yearly workshops to support institutions in bringing our training to their institutions
* This kind of program would benefit from a more defined use case than currently exists. I think it’s actually up to member organisations, or Carpentries community champions to make the case for this, rather than the Core and IT Teams. I’ve been one of those people, and I don’t think I”ve been all that successful at it either. This question is pertinent: “Why would we train people for an activity (Instructor Training) that we’re not going to support them to do? (Carpentries workshops)”. So in support of that qeustion, more could be done to measure and evaluate impact of Carpentries workshops in different contexts, as a piece of work that supports community champions in their advocacy.


### Audience:



* Pilot for NASA: organisations trying to build their own training program, possibly modelled on The Carpentries, but using their own separate curriculum and community of instructors
* Grad students that have to teach and have had zero training, not necessarily long-time professors
    * Some institutions do have preparatory programs for this, but not all
    * ACRL curriculum
* Truly topic-general (not just coding) or coding for everyone?


### Content:



* Greatest needs: 
    * Cognitive load
    * Effective exercises
    * Need for feedback
    * Expertise levels & awareness gaps
    * Skill vs knowledge focus, learning objectives…
    * **_Advice on curriculum development_**
        * _Note: this becomes critical because you can’t assume they are teaching well-designed lessons, which can make good instruction impossible_
        * _I agree we can’t assume well-designed lessons, but this seems to make the topic too big for a shorter training. Could this be passed to other orgs that already do this type of development? (i.e. the two day Instructional Skills Workshop - [https://www.iswnetwork.ca/](https://www.iswnetwork.ca/))  _
    * Practice sessions often seem necessary for trainees to “get it” +1
* Greatest hits:
    * Consider mining minute card data to evaluate features that are most frequently praised
    * Equity and Inclusivity content was frequently remarked upon
    * 



**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting, 21 September 2023, UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T14) 

Attending:   



* Inigo Aldazabal, Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), San Sebastian, Spain
* Olexandr Konovalov, University of St Andrews, Scotland, UK 
* [https://olexandr-konovalov.github.io/posts/2023/03/28/carpentries-translation/](https://olexandr-konovalov.github.io/posts/2023/03/28/carpentries-translation/)
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech, US
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
* Mike Trizna, Smithsonian Institution
* Lisanna Paladin, EMBL, Germany
* Anne Fouilloux, Simula Rsearch Laboratory, Oslo, Norway
* Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University, UK
* Hao Ye, University of Pennsylvania, US
* Mark Laufersweiler / Univ of Okklahoma Libaries / Norman, Oklahoma
* Alycia Crall, The Carpentries, Fort Collins, CO
* Aleksandra Nenadic, Software Sustainability Institute, Uni of Manchester, UK
* Pao Corrales, Buenos Aires
* Danielle Sieh, The Carpentries, Hilliard, Ohio, US
* Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries 
* Toby Hodges, The Carpentries

Skip down to meeting 2 sign-in: [https://pad.carpentries.org/trainers#L174](https://pad.carpentries.org/trainers#L174)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Inigo is already doing short trainings on demand
* [http://iamc.eu/live-coding-workshop-Leeds-2023-09-29/](http://iamc.eu/live-coding-workshop-Leeds-2023-09-29/)
* Nathaniel teaches a 1-hour mini workshop with lots of interest. Professors really appreciate skills that they have built, discussing how to scale.
* Lisanna is already experimenting with something similar as well. Think this could help in advertising the Carpentries model, getting people to put materials online, structure materials for reuse etc.
* Anne has experimented with this with CodeRefinery. Made a Carpentries-based training for them. More recently approached by ... foundation, asked for presentation on Carpentries. Requested a training like this.
* Jannetta: might be applicable, approached by Computer Science people who want to train for practicals. Was going to be too expensive to train them all.
* Hao: we are doing one of these tomorrow! Instructor training materials for research reproducibility. Mixture of Carpentries-style pedagogy, a little curriculum dev training
* Mark L; have been asking for something like this in our membership forever, there is no prof dev for most phd students in my institution, want to do this before I retire!
* Alycia: concerned about capacity because this would be very popular.
* Aleks: very glad to see initiative. I have tried to create something but never finished. Great way to introduce new audiences. Know many educators, others who have not heard about us but would benefit from learning about our approach. Recently found one slide proposing to create a shorter version like this
* Pao: some experience with similar curriculum in other settings, e.g. metadocensia. Created a short workshop, 3-hr course. Didn't teach often, many people more interested in teaching online. Hard to figure out what to keep and what to cut
* Danielle: know there are a lot of people who currently use our training when they don't intend to teach for us
* Maneesha: thinking about what we would need to do to support this
* Toby: need for curriculum dev
* Announcements
* All Trainers should have received a status renewal email
* +1
* Reminder: how to propose meeting topics
* system in GitHub for tracking meeting topics; consider using it to get something on schedule; link at top of Etherpad (line 27)
* Topic of the month: brainstorming non-Carpentries Instructor Training

Group 1



1. - pros and cons of dedicating time and resources to meet this need
1. Danielle: don't know amount of need for this (if not a huge need and we put in a lot of time and resources, that wouldn't be productive)
1. Nathaniel: there are a fair number of people who want to improve their teaching whose primary goal isn't to teach Carpentries workshops. It's often frustrating to them how much time we spend on Carpentries details (checkout, organization structure, etc). The downside is we might end up reducing the number of people who actually become Carpentires instructors
1. there are also people who primarily value the certification, and maybe try to find the easiest/quickest path there that is a detriment to their learning how to teach
1. Pao: Thinks there are lots of people who would be interested in the curriculum, especially if we can offer a shorter training. 2 days in a big commitment. This could be a way to expand our reach; maybe this would pique interest in Carpentries and then are those people asked to re-take the longer version of the training?
1. Danielle: Maybe a bonus curriculum to bridge that gap if it happens? 
1. Alycia: Scaling this type of pedagogy could have enormous impact, especially considering the size and global reach of our community. But right now we are having a hard time meeting demand of even Carpentries-specific requests, so adding new services could leave us over-extended. 
1. Jake: Could it be both? Turn trainings into more general things, with an optional module for Carpentires instructors? So it doesn't massively expand our workload? Instead of doing both independently?
1. Nathaniel: Likes that idea. Since we are already low on resources, this might incentivise more interest, especially from institutions, which could in turn provide us with more financial/human resources. Could we have yearly workshops to support institutions in bringing our training to their institutions?
1. Pao: LIkes the idea of having modules so people can skip the Carpentires-specific parts. It also gives us an opportunity to convince people not to skip that module once they're in the door.
1. Alycia: If we do this and we find that it scales significantly, does that change the mission of our organization? Do we pivot from our current aims to focusing more on promoting inclusive instruction? Would taht be a bad thing?
1. Danielle: Karen has hinted that a change like this would have an impact on our business model. It might be an opportunity to draw in more memberships, which would be huge, but the focus would have to change from technical workshops to training 
1. Jake: We should not underestimate the value of technical workshops to our members though. I feel like better pedagogy might actually be a harder sell than "teach your grad students to code"
1. Danielle: It's already hard to find enough instructors to meet that demand. So maybe this is a natural transition
1. Pao: Is the idea to make something really general (not just coding), or just making what we already do less Carpentries-specific? The former would be harder
1. Danielle: It's a good question. Don't have an answer
1. Jake: I think it's open; unclear what's been decided (if anything)

Group 2



1. - limitations on audience (short-format training only vs all higher ed vs …?)
1. University environment means that 2-day training is hard to time with semester schedule, and can lose continuity. Single day is easier. Specifically in digital humanities, a lot of teachers unfamiliar with technical tools want to learn how to adapt to that way of teaching.
1. Also reiterated that most grad students that teach have zero teaching training.
1. OU bringing on 80-100 new faculty each year. Longtime professors not necessarily the target, but easier to train new instructors.
1. People who could use this the most are those who see teaching as secondary (or lower) priority
1. This sounds like growth/closed mindset, but how to get that through before even convincing to join training?
1. Target incoming faculty -- more of a blank slate
1. Scope interpretation of  -- where would the Carpentries brand have more credibitility? Short-format training or higher ed? Are there existing programs to teach pedagogy to higher ed faculty?
1. My previous 2 institutions had pedagogy programs to prepare faculty or would-be faculty. The one I took was very good, but these were all optional programs.
1. ACRL curriculum -- American College Resource Librarians -- pointing to Library Carpentries. In order to improve retention of knowledge -- walking away with usable skills.
1. Mark: 
1. For a link to my ACRL reference: [https://publishing.escholarship.umassmed.edu/jeslib/article/id/478/](https://publishing.escholarship.umassmed.edu/jeslib/article/id/478/)
1. 
1. 

Group 3



1. - content: what to keep, what to cut for a 1-day event? 
1. Identify core goals for training
1. Identify audience for training
1. 
1. Hao: will focus on thinking about topic they are teaching but in a structured/guided way. Mirrors curriculum development. Learning objectives, not just understand, skills. Are activities practicing or evaluating or just easy to create. Higher-Ed teaching audience one key is maybe not cognitive load but concept maps, difference between having a student memorize definitions and being able to integrate and apply.
1. 
1. Anne: memory and cognitive load are important but often overlooked; many exercises that are ineffectual at getting feedback on whether learners are learning; learning how to write your own lesson
1. 
1. Inigo: (live coding experience) concerns about experienced instructors teachers being told that they would benefit from instructor training or additional learning about how to teach awareness of the levels of expertise (esp. abilities that differ among levels that goes beyond just knowledge of the topic)
1. 
1. Live coding - not everyone is on board with this practice!
1. 
1. growth mindset, focus on skills and specific skills, rather than "I have to have students do this final project or I didn't teach them" - if you have more fine-grained skills that are covered along the way, then the final project is more of a summative demonstration than a necessary goal to get to. (maybe this helps instructors feel ok cutting their own content and focus more on everything learned along the way)
1. 
1. Difficult to define the benefits for the Carpentries communities and a good business model to support it. But these short eg one morning, or a couple or hours workshops allow trainers to train with a lower entry barrier so that they are less "afraid" of participating in full trainiers trainings later on.
1. 
1. try to have a set of module rather than building a fixed "lesson"

**Group 4**



1. **Anticipated impacts: what percentage of trainees would likely choose this alternate route? **
1. **How might this change our standard Instructor Training events? **
1. **What aren’t we thinking about?**
1. 
1. - hard to answer, there would be people interested in both versions - The Carpenties would be interested in bringing mroe people but if they do not go on to teach Carpentries Workbench - the income will slow down or stop from memberships as there will not be enough intructors to teach at official workshops
1. - negative: potential loss of income from trainers spending time training people who then do not carry on to teach Carpentry workshops 
1. - negative: 2 curricula to develop and maintain
1. - create a 1-day training and what would people get at the end?
1. - there are also people who know how The Carpentries operate - time could be optimised by having a shorter training and have local instucors help with integrating new people into the community (so we outsource that)
1. - shorter training -> more workshops -> more people trained 
1. - positive: people who are not coding, they could still learn and benefit of this approach and attract different audience (who perhaps are scared of coding)
1. - what certification would people get from the short version - answer: none, but local institutions may issue certificates of attendandance
1. -positive: promoting Carpentries workshops to non-Carpentries audience, we could use this as an opportunity to invite them to attend Carpentries workshops, estblish relationships with institutions and good for public relations for the Carpentries
1. - perhaps have 1 standard IT curriculum stripped out of community aspect and then have a follow up skill up to learn abut the community aspects for people who want to certify 
1. - impact on collaborative lesson development training which has a prerequisite that al least one member of lesson developer teams is an instructor - having this shorter training may be a bit better / easier requirement and people may satisfy this requirement more easily having a shorter IT preprequsite 
1. 
1. - the live coding and teaching demo parts are, I think, useful for cementing the concepts of IT in a practical way. I have a small worry that someone who opts just for the theory parts may be underserved if they do not practice implementation or application in a relevant domain.
1. 
1. 
* Notes from Martino:
* - I think it's a great idea to have a training programme on didactics/teaching methods that is not necessarily linked to becoming an instructor. Simply because there's a lot of expertise about this in the Carpentries and we should share it widely.
* - I think this would be the lowest-hanging fruit if we ever want to create a fourth lesson programme alongside SWC, DC, LC. The advantage of this would be dedicating more time and resources to it -- we can have dedicated maintainers and committees etc, and eventually develop multiple courses: instructor training, generic non-instructor training, live-coding targeted training for CS instructors, etc.
* - "anticipated impacts: what percentage of trainees would likely choose this alternate route?": I think we should not worry about this. I envision these trainings to be taught in the same way as our Carpentries workshops, not the same way as instructor trainings — meaning that they can be self-organised or centrally organised, but either way it's on request based on the actual need. This may also answer the question about the format and specific content: it can be decided on an event-by-event basis, same as SWC workshops.
* Toby: I do not agree entirely with this last point: I think the existence of this training offer would reduce the demand for Instructor Training, i.e. if someone has attended one of these events, they are less likely to want to also attend a full two-day Instructor Training as they would (justifiably) perceive that Instructor Training to be of less value to them.

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 21 September 2023, UTC 23:00</span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230921T23)

Attending:   



*  Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries
*  Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
* Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF (Brisbane)
* Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries
* Karen Word
* 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Announcements
* All Trainers should have received a status renewal email
* Reminder: how to propose meeting topics
* Topic of the month: brainstorming non-Carpentries Instructor Training
1. - pros and cons of dedicating time and resources to meet this need
1. - limitations on audience (short-format training only vs all higher ed vs …?)
1. - content: what to keep, what to cut for a 1-day event? 
1. - anticipated impacts: what percentage of trainees would likely choose this alternate route? How might this change our standard Instructor Training events? What aren’t we thinking about?
* Erin: came to Carpentries with passion for teaching and coding came second so biased; struck by depth of conversation around capacity; wondering if the face that we have had such a sustained deep in Instructor capacity to teach technical workshops means that this type of pivot is good or necessary thing? agree that going in this direction would reduce our instructional capacity for technical workshops; is that a bad thing?
* Karen: really good question; not totally convinced that it would diminish our Instructor capacity (1) think that one of the problems we have is that we are unclear on capacity as ew hve folks who go through that do not plan to teach with us, so may not be planning to 
* Erin: clarification is that trainer capacity for leading the sessions; if some sessions dedicated to those not wanting to teach
* Mark: is this leading into a much deeper discussion about the fundamental concept of The Carpentires and how we operate all together; getting a drop off in who wants to take Instructor training; can't afford to give up two days to do technical training or Instructor training; model has always been that I don't expect them to volunteer, I pay them; if we are going to this model here for training, that starts to have a similar impact on traineres as they need to make time to do this; more Trainers are in more of that professional role so maybe less of an issue; Trainers are volunteering to help Carpentries; if expectation start training people that we never see again, what is benefit for Trainers? They become free staff for Carpentries; do we split into a commercial branch with paid Trainers and then volunteers that Instructors are trained and feed back into the community
* Jeff: coming at it from same level; is it the carpentries responsibility to provide training on good pedagogy in these areas regardless if people are going to be in carpentries or not; [https://biodiversitydatasciencecorp.github.io/Instructional-Pedagogy/](https://biodiversitydatasciencecorp.github.io/Instructional-Pedagogy/) summer workshop series for faculty; four hours / week; a lot of stuff is taken from Carpentries; they want to know how to do similar types of instruction in their own classes; Carpentries has contribute din this area by providing training materials; maybe that is how they fill this responsibility to larger area of education; what are those sustainable models as Mark and Erin talked about?
* Erin: following up on what Mark said, paying Instructors for technical workshops; convinced that large fraction that we have had a drop in teaching, there is a need for finanical compensation in this area; have investigated option for paying instructors and hav efound it to be logistically difficult due to legal complications of paying people in different places in the world; does some sort of compensation in house, could this be part of our model; require host institution to give honorarium or lower burden; would this help us pay people for their time without tackling legal complexities in house?
* Mark: in context of today's discussion, currently paying Instructors b/c that is model appropriate for my situation; if we are to move towards a more commercial model, it is parallel to that; might want to consider paying Trainers-same complications of managing that; how do you motivate trainers when it is not giving back to community?
* Karen: makes it more similar; Martino takes it all the way - could be lesson program; mission is not to spread good pedagogical skills; many trainers are already doing this; may be more of a question, how do we bring this under The Carpentries umbrella and create pathways to bring folks in and recognise trainers for these efforts; how does this fit into our revenue stream? 
* MarK: possibly worth bearing in mind that it will become less relevant over the next few years; people are doing Python in high school; same in R?; these skill being taught in school and undergraduate level; suspect that demand will drop adn Carpentries will need to diversify as other institutions take on our role over the past 10-15 years
* Karen: advancement of technology is ahead of what is needed in higher ed; lessons need to be how to talk to AI or whatever it is in next 10 years; model is two fold -> provide skills training and; what this could turn into is that there are others trying to build on Carpentries model in other areas; we are building this now for NASA; they do not want Carpentries thing, just the pedagogy for their own educational materials; this topic emerged out of interest from trainer meetings last time
* Mark: is there thoughts for Carpentries to spin off commercial arm for this?; should we be charging for groups to pay for us customizing training for them? 
* Karen: long term, this is something to consider; reminded at Core Team meeting, we have priorities that include not creating new programs; is this a new program? Sort of? Talking about repackaging what we already have but lots of considerations to make sure we don't break existing model; good talk this morning about content and what to keep/cut; what do people most need to hear? What is essential keep content?
* Mark: coming at it from other direction, what do we already have challenges with; we have 1/3 that have never heard of Carpentries; taking down to one day, we have people cannot grasp how we do things until half way through the workshop until days 3 or 4; before then, don't see point; live demos - if coming and not familiar iwth Carpentires, what do they teach on? how do they start doing a live demo if completely alien to them?
* Jeff: one of the benefits is it is 6 weeks for 4 hours /week; answer to KAren's question is "it depends"; one thing is formative assessment, idea of not lecturing for an hour and a half; that's your 45 second training; like all of the pedagogy stuff about DEI; how you do formative assessment?; how do you put this into practice? it is broadly applicable
* Karen: what we really probably need is a truly modular mix and match kind of thing; answer was it's different and it depends
* Mark: did this with one of our workshops last year; ususally 1 -2 day courses; one of them, got feedback that they didn't need all of it or it was hard to do it; had to rework due to dependencies; majority of people who do these still do 3 of the 4 modules; most people will do most of it; idea of having modules is worth thinking about; making units self contained is going to be a challenge; can still have modular course where you have had to attend previous module
* Karen: thinking about your communities, if we had an offering like this; if we assume same thing at same cost, how would your community take advantage of that relative to instructor training?
* Jeff: would be unlikely to recommend anything other than Carpentries Instructor trianing; good where it is; m;otivation to generate local Carpentries Instructors
* Mark: not at all sure; there's plenty of groups providing training that would benefit from a one day Instructor training thing; how many would take advantage of it, don't know; pool of instructors, not sure?; need a business placement study to do a business case for this
* Mark: way to get more information, if we can try to gather information on feedback from Instructor training sessions; do have that data out there in an unstructured format; perhaps try to find some to summarize?
* Jeff: question would be "why are we having the conversation?" "what is the need we are trying to address?"
* Karen: lot of different directions with this idea; how do we protect sustainailbity of organisation as we are addressing this? an exploratory conversation and we need to do the best we can with evaluating business consequences of this
* 