

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting, 16 November 2023, UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231116T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231116T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):



* ~~(post) Hao & Karen - 2023-11-07~~
* 

Others attending:   



* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Hamilton Ontario
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech
* Hao Ye (he/him), UPenn / Community for Rigor
* Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian
* Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries
* Trisha Adamus (she/her), University of Wisconsin - Madison
* Grace Fishbein (she/her), ACENET, Memorial University of Newfoundland
* Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries 
* Veronica Jimenez Jacinto (she/her, ella). Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Mexico
* Annajiat 
* 
* Kelly Barnes, klbarnes20@gmail.com
* 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Alycia Crall

**Agenda**:



* Introductions (name, affiliation, pronouns, area of curricula that could use work)
* Alycia: skill ups to support Instructors
* Jake: when Instructor is 2 days instead of 4 half days, wish teaching practices was on the two different dates
* Nathaniel: increasing Instructor notes with tips and guides with alternative approaches, these are things that might come up
* Hao: Wanting more guidance on giving feedback; in teaching demos and Instructor training, more reflection on why somethign is working or not working; will help Instructors be better an being intentional in improving their teaching; how to think about feedback other than "good" "bad"
* Luis: adding some slides here and there; go back and forth for when that will be useful to give them something else other than my face; to show highlights, important terms
* Trisha: equity, diversity, inclusion section; would be nice to include some more expertise from the learners themselves in this area; good to include more experiences than us just talking about it
* Grace: really value all the discussion time, networking to learn from others experiences and to share my experiences; addressing hows of what we were doing in the moment we were teaching them to do; if a lot of time, would take that lesson to bullet point myself so I do not take too much time to speak in between
* Kelly: People still want more examples of what formative assessment; that is a piece of it that people continue to ask for
* Veronica: when exercise waiting for them to finish, need to identify who is working and who is waiting; I try to waiting 50% people finish but some never finish; suggestion to tell all to use symbol when starting to work; this makes it where I do not need to wait
* Annajiat: cannot over emphasize getting feedback; take feedback from peers; sometimes don't take feedback from participants or helpers after sessions or during lunch break; short term or long term changes in each other
* Announcements
* It's time to schedule Community Sessions. Between now and 30 November, you can sign-up to host for Q1 2024: [https://calendly.com/thecarpentries](https://calendly.com/thecarpentries). This includes community discussion sessions, skill up sessions, and collaboration sessions. If you are interested in hosting a community session but have not been officially onboarded as a Community Session Host, please email community@carpentries.org. We can either provide support for your session or provide you with an onboarding that will take no more than 30 minutes of your time. The following resources are also available to support onboarding into this role: 
* The onboarding video (16:44): [https://youtu.be/XXcXIx8mAF4](https://youtu.be/XXcXIx8mAF4)
* The onboarding presentation with detailed notes: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QBES6DJpHS1vZ9JU_0_09ebYOab_djmbC02NxbwZwtY/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QBES6DJpHS1vZ9JU_0_09ebYOab_djmbC02NxbwZwtY/edit?usp=sharing)
* 2024 Community Sessions Etherpad: [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024)
* Session opening script: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/18uw22aNFXa3F5HoEnSREg22CQb-86Wb0HnhBvPmHHzk/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18uw22aNFXa3F5HoEnSREg22CQb-86Wb0HnhBvPmHHzk/edit?usp=sharing)
* Questions? community@carpentries.org
* Waiting to 27 November to confirm events; Calendar published 8 December
* Topic of the month: curriculum maintenance!
* The Instructor Training curriculum is supported by Trainers who volunteer to play a maintenance role, as well as by Leadership which serves as a Curriculum Advisory Committee. However, there is also an important role for the Trainer community to play in this process. This meeting will give us time to check in on outstanding issues and PRs as well as discuss maintenance processes and priorities more broadly. 
* Take some time to review the pull requests and issues: 
* [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues)
* [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pulls](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pulls)
* Change live coding to live demonstration [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1558](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1558)
* What do you think the we could be prioritizing? 
* I think graphics/slides are highly desired by attendees of instructor training - it makes sense to me to try and implement those and address that common request. There are quite a few copyediting issues that to me, might be best resolved by a single person dedicating half a day to work through.
* Would it be useful if we could automate creating a slideshow (using markdown) from the "All Images" page or do people rely more on using slides also for summarizing the text/content (so it would be less valuable)?
* As someone who processes information better through reading, summarizing the text/content is a preferred way for me to learn vs. watching/listening to trainers. I realize some people may also get lost/confused if there is text on the screen and it does NOT exactly match what a trainer is saying.
* Maybe some processes to quickly resolve issues that aren't going to be major discussion areas. It's good to get input from the community, and it does make for more complete fixes, but maybe a better approach is to try and resolve minor issues quickly so that the bigger issues don't get lost?
* The accessibility issues, and promote looking for them in other lessons.
* Jake: interested in incorrect fundamental beliefs is a difficult and interesting question
* Kelly: notes from a Trainer's meeting as well; interesting and tricky situation
* Kelly: changing live coding to live demonstration
* Hao: thumbs up
* Luis: like the change of "demonstration" from "demo" as well
* Jake: agree with suggestions made; obvious win
* Nathaniel: there is a somewhat related pull request ([https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1619](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1619)) ; would love feedback on does it make sense re: on spreadsheet lessons
* Grace: Demonstration to me sounds just observatory for learners and not participatory
* Hao: think through possible concerns about accepting Excel as a teaching demo option; one of hte ways in twhich workshops run off rails is when there are Instructors who have not gone through Instructor training teaching parts of the workshop and do those in ways that are difficult for learners to follow; is possible concern that someone goes through IT, go through demo in Excel, and then teaches a workshop where folks are using other platforms
* Jake: to explore other side, we do trust our Instructors to stay in their lane; if a person doesn't code, would expect them to know that they are not in a position to help with that
* Hao: less that someone has done an Excel demo would not teach a Shell lesson but the individual who teaching Shell is not trained as a Carpentries Instructor
* this happens regardless of whether excel demo is accepted for teaching demos, so perhaps this concern is orthogonal to the suggested change to allow excel as a demo lesson
* Kelly: conversation in chat, what 
* Jake: Agree tiwh Grace's objection to demo; Grace stating that they are not participating
* Grace: don't have issue with losing "coding" but "demo" sounds more like you are expected to show up and watch; live demo is I'm going to show you something in real time; would be good to put some accountability on learner to show up and do the thing
* Hao: Grace, are you also thinking this might address the pre-filled notebook teaching demo issue?
* Grace: don't love that, you need to be typing; could potentially address that issue too
* Nathaniel: I’m not sure about “practice” from the other side - that it doesn’t necessarily indicate that we’re practicing up front with them (e.g. it could just be learners practice with help). But the concerns make sense. ; learners are doing somethign but it doesn't encompass that they are doing it not doing it along with us
* Jake: the word "demo" is being used in different ways; two parallel concerns; when we replace "live coding" with "live demo" issue Grace mentions; if "live practice" will that cause confusion?
* Grace: for teaching demo, no one is doing it with them
* Kelly: the word demonstration causes added confusion because of hte checkout requirement
* Nathaniel: The alternative to replacing “live coding” at all would be to keep it and add call-outs/clarifications that make really clear that you don’t have to “code".
* Luis: something about keeping it as "coding", thing is to get folks more comfortable with "coding" so maybe keeping that helps make that obvious; doesn't have to be complicated
* Kelly: good point too; two sides to using coding; (1) demystifying coding; (2) but also scares people off; the literature using "live coding"; maintainers need to make decision; where are we leaning?
* Nathaniel: I like guided practice - I didn’t realize it was that specific. But I think there would still be a value in emphasizing the particularities of our form of guided practice in live coding/demonstrations/insertyourfavoriteterm.
* Grace: “Just in time programming” sounds like coding for procrastinators
* Kelly: sounds like we still want to have discussion on this in the PR; Nathaniel, what are you thinking? 
* Nathaniel: suggestion is that we create a new PR to add a call out that fills in the gap; we are not using "live coding" to only mean "programming"; might need to do some larger scale changes
* Hao: My understanding of the lingo:
* "participatory live coding" is the approach.
* "Teaching Demonstration using Participatory Live Coding" feels like the whole phrase.
* "teaching demo" is shorthand for that phrase
* Nathaniel: one thing to highlight is issue ([https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1612](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1612)); considering density of first day, would be beneficial to have more visuals to break things up; opportunity to contribute to help individuals who are visual learners to help with dense pedagogy section; if anyone wants to participate to the "checkout instructions," that would be helpful
* Kelly: would be helpful if you could provide feedback as you've been teaching; difficult for Maintainers to make decisions on topics that we cannot come to consensus
* Nathaniel: And always try to take notes on what could be better as you train then submit things afterwards, please!
* Hao: can those of us doing the recording tomorrow

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 16 Nov 2023, UTC 23:00</span>

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231116T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20231116T23)

Attending:   



*  
*  Murray Cadzow (he/him), University of Otago, NZ
* Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech (Virginia, USA)
* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico (New Mexico, US)
* Paula pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, USA
* 
* Sara King (she/her), AARNet (AU) - can only stay for 15 mins tho!
* Liz STokes (she/they) ARDC Sydney
* Yanina Bellini Saibene (she/her/ella), rOpenSci
* Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF Australia

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

Agenda:



* Introductions - one thing to improve
* needs more time for practice
* needs to be longer
* Instructor/Trainer notes everywhere to help new Trainers or those who have been away to predict potential rabbit-holes etc.
* checkout seems to take 2x longer than it should
* more time, love exercises (learner);  instructions about how to do things (trainer)
* day 1 is very content-heavy. Spreading it out might give more time for practice that day.
* Trainer confidence in delivering day 1 material
* there's only so much the curriculum can cover. Confidence developed in theory-heavy stuff after reading more things behind it.
* Agree about more time for discussion. Always try to have a group discussion after exercises. Added material that has to do with authors in Spanish.
* Bib: Neurociencia en la escuela. Andrea Goldin.
* ¿Cómo aprendemos? Una aproximación científica al aprendizaje y la enseñanza. Héctor Ruiz Martín.
* Announcements
* It's time to schedule Community Sessions. Between now and 30 November, you can sign-up to host for Q1 2024: [https://calendly.com/thecarpentries](https://calendly.com/thecarpentries). This includes community discussion sessions, skill up sessions, and collaboration sessions. If you are interested in hosting a community session but have not been officially onboarded as a Community Session Host, please email community@carpentries.org. We can either provide support for your session or provide you with an onboarding that will take no more than 30 minutes of your time. The following resources are also available to support onboarding into this role: 
* The onboarding video (16:44): [https://youtu.be/XXcXIx8mAF4](https://youtu.be/XXcXIx8mAF4)
* The onboarding presentation with detailed notes: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QBES6DJpHS1vZ9JU_0_09ebYOab_djmbC02NxbwZwtY/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QBES6DJpHS1vZ9JU_0_09ebYOab_djmbC02NxbwZwtY/edit?usp=sharing)
* 2024 Community Sessions Etherpad: [https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024)
* Session opening script: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/18uw22aNFXa3F5HoEnSREg22CQb-86Wb0HnhBvPmHHzk/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18uw22aNFXa3F5HoEnSREg22CQb-86Wb0HnhBvPmHHzk/edit?usp=sharing)
* Thank you for sharing your availability for Q1! Due to the US holiday next week, we will be in touch to confirm the week of the 27th. 
* Topic of the month: curriculum maintenance!
* The Instructor Training curriculum is supported by Trainers who volunteer to play a maintenance role, as well as by Leadership which serves as a Curriculum Advisory Committee. However, there is also an important role for the Trainer community to play in this process. This meeting will give us time to check in on outstanding issues and PRs as well as discuss maintenance processes and priorities more broadly. 
* Take some time to review the pull requests and issues: 
* [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues)
* [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pulls](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pulls)
* Change live coding to live demonstration [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1558](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1558)
* What do you think the maintainers could be prioritizing? 
* Redux from this morning
* Jon: maybe the issue isn't the word "coding" but "live" - maybe "instructor led practice"? 
* Paula: "interactive practice" or "interactive teaching"?
* Nathaniel: also "teaching demo" is part of checkout...
* Yani: for me the word is "participatory" not "live". "participatory live coding". Remove participatory and the students are just watching you type. Really like demo. Try to use different words when teaching -- have a lesson where you teach how to seach for help. e.g. stack overflow. That is not coding, so speak about live search. Live demonstration could be very good for this. Also use "live software" and didn't like it. Expecting that they do things with us is "particpatory" not "live".
* Would like to keep "live coding" for live coding and only change when we do another demo. Because there is scientific research behind that. Not removing one or the other but using demo instead when we need it.
* Liz: important to look at language that defines belonging to Carpentries community. Not a problem with "live coding" when we emphasize participation. "live demo" which exists in many other contexts demonstrating software or platform, is related. Hesitate to do a wholesale move to make the language more general because it's important to our community that we are specific about things that make us stand out and what we hope to achieve through it.
* Nathaniel: part of the problem may be that the language is doing differnet work in different places. We use live demo for 2 things, teaching demos and practice of live coding. Lesson is also teaching principles of this kind of thing which is a part of broader guided practice, principles hold up -- we do it this way because we are doing a certain thing. That may be the sticking point. One is better suited for one context and another for the other.
* Liz: always difficult finding a global term that means the same thing to everybody. Embracing the different ways we understand words helps us learn. We are stronger for holding these concepts more loosely. A problem may be how much we expect discussion in an issue or PR to honestly resolve a problem that has been raised. It may be that it's more useful to tag several issues/PRs about language and hold that a little less loosely. There's interest, but disengagement doesn't mean it's unsolved, may not be that important.
* Mark: to Liz' point on never agreeing on a word, we do have a glossary. Is live coding in the glossary? Can we add it, and can there be a semi-automated way to link these things?
* [https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/reference.html#glossary](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/reference.html#glossary)
* FAQ page for questions asked on Day 2?
* How does maintenance work?
* Liz: it may be unclear whether a poster wants consensus, or to offer for discussion, or wants to make a suggestion. "Instructor training should have more breaks" - there are comments but no resolution. THat could be closed because in general practice now we make decisions to schedule breaks throughout. Would it be helpful for people to sign up for an hour to help decide on things that could be closed? Maybe it's ok to have them all here, maybe "inbox zero" dream relates. If I say I'd like to clean up some old things that appear to be no longer a problem or current issue. Should we use a comment to document practice and say probably this can be closed?
* Nathaniel: definitely helpful to add comments to say if you think something can be closed. As soon as people interact with things they pop up and we notice them more. You can tag Trainers Leadership (functions as CAC) and Maintainers. Maintainers can close or tag appropriately. That is definitlely helpful. Issues in particular are hard to get through. PRs mostly get done.
* Liz: maybe a "resolver badge" in addition to fame and glory for recommending that issues be closed
