**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 1, 7 September 2023, UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230907T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230907T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):


Others attending:   



* Kelly Barnes, she/her, kbarnes@carpentries.org
* Lisanna Paladin, she/they, lisanna.paladin@gmail.com
* Mark Laufersweiler, he/him, Univ Oklahoma LIbraries
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), sarah.stevens@wisc.edu, University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Angelique Trusler, angelique@carpentries.org
* Mike Trizna, he/him/his, triznam@si.edu 
* Luis J. Villanueva, he/him, villanueval@si.edu 
* Toby Hodges, he/him, tbyhdgs@gmail.com
* Maneesha Sane (any pronouns), The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org
* Jordan Pedersen, she/her, jpederse@uoguelph.ca
* Rooweither Mabuya, she/her, roo.mabuya@nwu.ac.za
* Annajiat Alim Rasel, annajiat@gmail.com

Apologies:



* Aleks Nenadic (attending RSECon23 conference) 
* Mateusz Kuzak (attending RSECon23)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

Introductions

Pre/post discussion

Announcements



* Checkout changes rollout has gone smoothly so far
* Please share feedback on your experience with the changes!
* Status renewal emails will be going out the week of September 19
* [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261)
* Meetings will not be required for renewal this time (though they are always welcome!)
* Leadership and Core Team will focus review on making infrastructure recommendations for a better process
* Time window still runs March-March but we will look at changing this next year

Topic notes

- How has the approach to training at your institution been shaped by The Carpentries? How do you see that changing?

- I personally did not get the certification/role expecting something to change at the level of my organisation (which is not a Carpentry member), but rather to get myself a more active role in The Carpentries community, and bring back to my organisation what I can from it. I have a trainer role / job position in my organisation, so that's how I expect to connect the two worlds. 

- in my past role at the University of Toronto (which had a membership for a few years), it really made a difference in staff training in the library (which was the biggest user/driver of the membership), especially as we went through a system migration. That said, it was tough to sustain when there were only a few of us that were heavily invested, but then I left, leaving more work for the few remaining folks.  -- Jordan

* the active learning environment and other pedagogoes are one element that is discussed and we hear feedback regarding. Learners love it. (Mark)

-Mike: The Carpentries lives in such a weird place at the Smithsonian with respect to training. Most people recognize it as the place to get skilled up in programming and/or working with data, but technical training is technically run by our HR department that arranges for mostly Excel classes. There are a few units who have adopted Carpentries style for teaching the types of ad hoc lessons they normally teach.

- Sarah: I feel like we've had a lot of influence in the sphere we have access to.  We've expanded our own workshops, developed new workshops, trained lots of helpers and instructors.  Since librarians are a big part of the community, this has also added new library workshops that teach in the Carpentries style using the Carpentries lessons and CoC.  We've not been able to break into making change in actual courses from the university.  There have been a few instructors who have taken IT and applied it to their courses but it has been difficult to get buy-in from professors for their courses.

 - We use The Carpentries approach when we faciliate workshops at different universities introducing the computational tools we have available for linguistic research. The sticky notes and allowing time for learners to provide feedback at the end of each section is helpful.

- Where have your efforts been frustrated? What challenges have you overcome? What lessons have you learned?



* Learners are becoming less inclined to attend the full series of instriction. They one just one or two of the topics, with the programing languare the primary single requested topic. (Mark)
* similarly, I find that attention is challenging when teaching virtually (even though I prefer the flexibility), because the pull to check notifications is so strong for the learners -- Jordan

- Sarah: Around IT in particular, we've had to work especially hard the past few years at recruiting new people to teach in our local community.  We used to get a lot of people joining the community through informal discussions with learners during the workshops to recruit them to help/teach.  Now we've implemented a more formal program to recruit new helpers/intructors with an email campaign and info sessions.  We just had the info session yesterday and had really good attendance (both in-person and virtually) with lots of good questions and 3 people applied to use our IT seats from membership.



1. Impact report: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NL0XD2o1oiwkQAcDFjh7tgXOSHaMDEaa/view](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NL0XD2o1oiwkQAcDFjh7tgXOSHaMDEaa/view)

- I feel in general bombarded by information at work nowadays. The people I interact at work share this feeling, to the extent that we don't always read full emails/chat/Slack messages. Sometimes I feel like The Carpentries is yet another source of long informational bits that I have no time to process/read/interact with. Paraphrasing: I have an hard time with emails or any other form of general - not particularly targeting myself - information. 

- Recruiting an even balance of instructors from around the institution has been difficult, and I always feel as if the same core group of instructors who show up to instructor meetings risk getting stuck with additional responsibilities when we ask for volunteers. --Mike

- Training tends to be directed by their job requirements, so people participating of the workshops tend to be self-guided, which limits the pool of participants. 

- What role does this community play in your efforts? What role could it play?



* Create a lesson site that removes the Carpentry specific material and have just the teaching philosophy/pedagogy (Mark) +1
* +1, and similarly one about an Open Science / Open Research / an inclusive approach to Academia/Research
* I revently took something called the Instructional Skills Workshop ([https://www.iswnetwork.ca/](https://www.iswnetwork.ca/)) which is a little more focused on lesson planning, and less on live coding (but heavy on scaffolded exercises that are broadly applicable), but I found it wasn't as concise or clear as the carpentries training. 
* Similarly, the ELIXIR-GOBLET training programme is also focused on lesson planning
* I found having a carpentries membership meant that people were more interested in teaching locally and less so in the broader community (or maybe this was a reflection on what their supervisors would support for the time commitment). But I personally find the trainer community helpful to connect with people with various areas of expertise that are different than my own (I'm a librarian). I think my favourite part of the community is the ability to ask questions asynchronously and read other's thoughts in the slack channel --- Jordan

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 2, 7 September 2023, UTC 23:00</span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230907T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230907T23)

Training discussion (pre and post):

Karen Word

Others attending:   



* Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries, alycia@carpentries.org
* Sarah Brown, University of Rhode Island, 
* Karl Benedict (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University

 

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

Introductions

Pre/post discussion

Karen - 



1. - Training with Grace Fishbein 
1. - First round with updated checkout activity. Need to do a relance PR. Need to clarify the multiple options now. Need to probably kick out some of the content on that page. 
1. 

Karl: comparing learning responses/questions/anxiety that comes through about checkout process, did you experience any changes iwth new process? Learner reaction?



1. Karen: yes and no; b/c activity was imbalanced, there were a lot of questions, people were not as anxious about teaching demo piece; did not have to get into lesson episode that you have to teach whole lesson; still took a fair amount of time to cover the whole thing and make sure questions were answered; folks seemed pleased
1. 

Karen: ran demo yesterday; had a little bit of everything including two that were fairly standard; one person who did not follow the episode at all, not even close so they will repeat; there is the new feature of the new checkout that the person who prepared the heck out of it; had practiced it to be 5 minutes but felt the need to acknowledge that itw as a polished presentation and that this is a downside of the new process; it will never be like this; have to be rough around the edges; don't hold as ideal



1. Jake: I would almost be tempted for them to redo it. I couldn't ask this but would like to; Does not show what we are looking for; is there a way around this?
1. Karen: we knew this was cmoing and ask them not to over prepare; cannot punish people for it
1. Karl: are going to continue to see this showing up in demos; how much time are you spending for those five minutes; now let's scale that for 16 hours of content; think about how much time you can realistically spend preparing with one Instructor partner;how much time is that for prep and practice? we can reenforce during prompt; one way to provide feedback
1. Jake: if you do math on that, probably did spend 40 hours for prepping; 25 minutes of prep for a 5 minute presentation; give those numbers at trainings
1. Jon: never going to have that much time to prepare; want to emphasize anxiety component of that; over preparation can cause more anxiety than it should; it someone putting that much time into it, they are not going to have a good first workshop if they do not have enough time prep to be comfortable teaching
1. Karen: possibility that it is not all bad; as they are spending this much time, they are drilling on Carpentries teaching practices so they are really dwelling on teh styke of presenation in that context; might help them retain that on their style ; will check out assessment when it comes out
1. Karl: wanted to add that after many years of informal preparation for many teaching workshops, describe myself as "inappropiate nonchalance"

Announcements



* Checkout changes rollout has gone smoothly so far
* Please share feedback on your experience with the changes!
* Folks have shown interest in certification amnesty option
* No significantn problems thus far
* 
* Jake: haven't been changes to rubric / assessment in demos?
* Karen: rubric still has only "prepared a lesson"; have not updated it so need to tweek it; learners are pointed to that rubric so does need updating; how we evaluate demos other than that, everything is still comparable; there is a new template email for sending out reminders; in first meeting this week, got on topic of demos; most common feedback is good point for discussion thread; that feedback needs to make it's way to rubric; learners see rubric when reviewing, then we can handle some of those problems
* Status renewal emails will be going out the week of September 19
* Link to track this: [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261)
* many more opportunities to make changes to infrastructure by Technology Team
* Meetings will not be required for renewal this time (though they are always welcome!)
* Leadership and Core Team will focus review on making infrastructure recommendations for a better process
* Time window still runs March-March but we will look at changing this next year
* No one will be required to meet with Karen this year for renewal
* Anyone who has not checked all boxes will be asked to fill out a form -> will help us understand what we want in AMY to support this process; filling out form will be adequate for renewal; still going to use same time window; once make adjustments to process, will have to move dates so it is not in March so new leadership is not onboarding at the same time; will change in future but not this year

Topic notes

- How has the approach to training at your institution been shaped by The Carpentries? How do you see that changing?



1. - (KB) We have definitely evolved our locally developed workshop models to reflect the practices and thoughtful approach that we have learned and practiced through our Carpentries work. 
1. 

- Jon: We have developed some strong and ongoing collaborations with our HPC center, with both the library and the HPC seeing the value of the Carpentries as both a community and a pedagogical approach. We may be approaching a collective/shared model for data science initiatives and education. 

- Where have your efforts been frustrated? What challenges have you overcome? What lessons have you learned?



1. - Jon: Getting a consistent and reliable degree of effort and engagement can be challenging. Because of the volunteer nature of the Carpentries, the people who really get into it and contribute the most are those who feel the most invested personally. It becomes a matter of multiple personal commitments, less than an ideal institutional commitment. My approach to addressing this has been to treat everything as a collaboration - we're doing this or that, and we're doing it for the organization/instutution, and the Carpentries is a resource that we're able to leverage to accomplish our shared goals. Sometimes that works - usually with the people who are already invested in it - and sometimes it doesn't. 
1. - (KB) Still having challenges keeping lessons on track and more so within time bounds. Intentional cutting vs. real-time reactive changes is something I want to be more intentional about. 
1. - I have a hard time generating excitement locally about the Carpentries organization/model. People appreciate it just as a vehicle for doing training of specific topics they want to see more people learn, but there isn't the excitement I would like to see about the method, or being intentional about creating new material using the method. It's hard to push for it alone. --Jake
1. - my institution doe snot have much carpentries community, but there is a ramp up in such training, so I hope to push them this way, but I do not know if it will succeed -sarah

- What role does this community play in your efforts? What role could it play?



1. - (KB) Having a community sounding board for experiences and ideas has proven very useful. Both for learning that I'm not alone in what I'm experiencing and for seeing how others have addressed shared challenges/questions. +1
1. - more example things written up that I could share with colleagues about how others run their local communities
1. - Jon: re the value of the pedagogy, thoughts or resources on extending it beyond the immediate context of the technical workshops