**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting, 3 August 2023  UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220803T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220803T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):



* Karen Word (she/her)
* 

Others attending:  



*  Mateusz Kuzak (he/him/his) Netherlands eScience Center
*  Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech
* Lisanna Paladin (she/they), EMBL Heidelberg (Germany)
* Trisha Adamus (she/her), UW-Madison
* Eilis Hannon (she/her), University of Exeter
* Jannetta Steyn (she/her), Newcastle University, UK
* Fredo Erxleben (any pronouns you like), Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf
* Toby Hodges (he/him)
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), UW-Madison
* Danielle Sieh (she/her/hers)
* David Pérez-Suárez (he/him), University College London, UK
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada
* Rooweither Mabya (she/her), South Africa
* Aleksandra Nenadic (she/her), Software Sustainability Institute, Manchester UK
* Hao Ye (he/him), UPenn Community for Rigor, USA
* Mmasibidi Setaka (she/her), South Africa
* Pao Corrlaes (she/her), Argentina
* Annajiat Alim Rasel , Bangladesh

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* A memory or feeling you have had when doing something new (maybe instructor training, maybe something else)
* Pre/post: creative roles for 3 Trainers
* Pao: 2 concentrate only on teaching, 3rd on link sharing and tidying notes etc. Ask that person to keep an eye on teaching for specific feedback 
* Fredo: role playing experienced and novice instructors, pointing out 
* Announcements
* 14 August = rollout date for checkout changes! Communications plans in spreadsheet: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cue9qYISt4tLF_VaMJlwp6KzUNrIwYSj1XMD8fJiNRg/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cue9qYISt4tLF_VaMJlwp6KzUNrIwYSj1XMD8fJiNRg/edit?usp=sharing)
* Q4 scheduling form opens soon! Sorry about the noise, as some communications will overlap with rollout of the checkout changes. Look for an email about this at the end of this week.
* Topic of the month - welcome new trainers
* Lisanna Paladin
* Ellis Hannon
* Fredo Erxleben
* Rooweither Mabya
* Mmasibidi Setaka

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 3 August 2023, UTC 23:00</span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230803T23](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230803T23)

Training discussion (pre and post):



* Mark Crowe. (QCIF, Brisbane) & liz Stokes
* Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ

Others attending:   



*  Jesica Formoso
*  Greg Chism
* Paula Pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, USA
* Macarena Quiroga (she/her), Argentina
* Karen Word (she/her), The Carpentries

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre/post discussion:
* Mark & Liz: quite a small event in the end. 14 scheduled, 11 turned up, 10 in the end. Aus, US, Canada, UK (!) - very dedicated despite time zone stretches. Commented on breaks -- did extend a bit more than usual. Comments that they enjoyed the way the course connected training concepts, linking new material to past material, liked reinforcement. Liked that Trainers demonstrate techniques that they are teaching. Breakout rooms had mixed comments. Liked working with each others. Sometimes found that they were still unclear after they left for breakouts, lost slides etc. Changed to make sure all exercises were pasted innto the doc and clarified everything before they left. Related: sometimes discuss after breakouts and sometimes use doc after breakouts, sometimes just move on. Some confusion about exactly what the outcome expected was. Checkout section was interesting because we covered the fact that it was all about to change... asked a repeat to explain the situation. 
* Liz: cognitive load section sometimes flummox people with confusing diagrams. Tried a new diagram to explain it and felt more in control of what that concept is and why/how germane load relates to intrinsic. One thing they really liked was group work, asked for longer teaching practices to be better prepared for teaching demo. Mark's preparation and structure was really great to work with. 
* See from slide 19 on Memory and Cognitive load [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B4OnenLBeHadbIBa-O1I0YNUr8HFnnu6/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101896766280576316623&rtpof=true&sd=true](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B4OnenLBeHadbIBa-O1I0YNUr8HFnnu6/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101896766280576316623&rtpof=true&sd=true)
* Source for graphic is [https://apo.org.au/node/219641](https://apo.org.au/node/219641)
* Centre for Education Statistics and Evaluation NSW (2017) Cognitive load theory: research that teachers really need to understand, CC-BY.
* Mark: with live coding exercises, did have an interesting situation where someone couldn't handle it being 3 minutes and you just get through whateber you get through. How do you get through everything in 3 minutes? Not sure that was fully clarified by the time they finished. Liz had a quicker memory game. Flashed up letters and made them remember them, then put up the word memory and had them remember those, quicker activity when short on time!
* Jeff & Ben: will be teaching new checkout process next week because it's just before rollout. 
* Last time didn't know how to find the time estimates (they are in the instructor view!)
* Karen: 3 people at an event:
* Jeff: did one a while ago. Great to be able to accommodate conflicts. Less burned out. Would love to have that for every event
* Liz: gets you closer to jugyokenkyu? More opportunity to see how other people teach
* Announcements
* 14 August = rollout date for checkout changes! Communications plans in spreadsheet: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cue9qYISt4tLF_VaMJlwp6KzUNrIwYSj1XMD8fJiNRg/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cue9qYISt4tLF_VaMJlwp6KzUNrIwYSj1XMD8fJiNRg/edit?usp=sharing)
* Q4 scheduling form opens soon! Sorry about the noise, as some communications will overlap with rollout of the checkout changes. Look for an email about this at the end of this week.
* Topic of the month