## Trainer Meeting, 6 July 2023  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230406T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230406T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):



*     
*    

**Others attending**   



* Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries
* Toby Hodges (he/him)
* Kelly Barnes (she/her)
* Fredo Erxleben
* Aleks Nenadic (she/her)
* Yani Bellini Saibene (she/ella), rOpenSci, Argentina
* Mike Trizna (he/him), Smithsonian
* Kari Jordan
* Pao Corrales (she/her), Buenos Aires, Argentina
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States
* Samantha Ahern (she/her), University College London
* Margareth Gfrerer, Ministry of Education, Ethiopia
* Lisanna Paladin (she/they), European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) Germany
* Anne Fouilloux (sher/her), Simula Research Laboratory, Norway
* Annajiat Alim Rasel, Bangladesh
* Hao Ye (he/him)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Margareth: we ran a Training for four universities, following after a Data Carpentry workshop. Now in checkout. All Instructors except Bonny and me have left country, so hoping to get trainees through checkout ASAP. Should have 19 new Instructors in Ethiopia by October. In-person training. Combination of in-person and online participation; used some online learning tools; help participants learn about some new methods, get comfortable with modern way of teaching. Try to give trainees some tools and insights to try out new things and gain in confidence. There is often fear of students among trainees, especially if they are young. Try to encourage them to think of themeselves as coaches.
* Kelly: cool opportunity to first see how a workshop is taught, before attending Instructor Training.
* Angelique: do you teach Training in English or Amarhic?
* M: English, with Bonny providing more info/explanation as an interpreter where needed.
* K: Do you also help them with checkout?
* M: yes. luckily we had African community meetup, which they could all attend. Then they did teaching demos and I was very pleased to see how well they did on this. Now they have to do the lesson contribution, we will support them with the steps through that process too. We have seen this succeed in the past - without this support the checkout rate has been very low. 
* Questions and feedback from new Trainers:
* waiting for badges so we can officially start
* Hao: My advice for teaching instructor training is the same as for non instructor training—don't worry about trying to fit in all the content!
* Annajiat: have frequently got feedback that having a few slides can make trainees a lot more confident. Another tip: check with participants beforehand to find out which platform they are most confident using.
* Kelly: recently taught a training to a group who worked for a government org that wasn't allowed to use Zoom - we were taken by surprise by them not knowing how to use Zoom. Expert awareness gap.
* Lisanna: do you use slides?
* Kelly: I find it easier to use slides
* Toby: use some slides, where visual aids help with explanation. also share etherpad when I want people to be typing there.
* Sarah: I do not use slides - too much to manage. I have these up: prepared etherpad notes, curriculum, learner etherpad, Zoom. Show images from curriculum.
* Yani: people get nervous when they do not see slides on Zoom - ask if I should be sharing my screen
* Pao: +1 to Yani's experience
* Lisanna: is there a template etherpad?
* Kelly: yes, but only with links to images. 
* Mike: recently used CodiMD, which can be used to produce slides. Handles images better than Etherpad.
* Kelly: does CodiMD add cognitive overload for trainees?
* Mike: did not use this for trainees, as a replacement for etherpad notes - only to prepare slides. [https://codimd.carpentries.org/UTjTRhFlStuRP2zXAWaDHw](https://codimd.carpentries.org/UTjTRhFlStuRP2zXAWaDHw) -> [https://codimd.carpentries.org/p/j8oYrZGAH](https://codimd.carpentries.org/p/j8oYrZGAH) in slide mode
* Lisanna: have used CodiMD in workshop context, because Markdown was part of workshop content
* Fredo: have used HedgeDoc for trainings, even when trainees have no idea about Markdown. Five minute intro to interface, showing where to click to edit document. Also include instructions in the document so they can see this info when they arrive. Stress that learning Markdown is not a goal of the training, and that they do not need it to work in the document. Ask Helpers to go through and fix formatting occasionally.
* Announcements
* Meeting 2 is moving 1 hour later as of July 20. This meeting is not moving.
* Checkout implementation date is now July 31.
* Checkout changes Q&A
* Hao: what aspects of Carpentries philosophy would you want to bring to higher education?
* Pao: more formative assessment, exercises etc while teaching
* Sam: intentional hospitality - creating that welcoming, positive learning environment. read more [https://blogs.ucl.ac.uk/digital-education/2021/11/08/intentional-hospitality/](https://blogs.ucl.ac.uk/digital-education/2021/11/08/intentional-hospitality/)
* Aleks: I would love a one-day version of Instructor Training for situations like this.
* Yani: a 3 hour version:
* [https://yabellini.netlify.app/courses/intro-abc-online/](https://yabellini.netlify.app/courses/intro-abc-online/)
* and the sequel:
* [https://yabellini.netlify.app/courses/teach_programming/](https://yabellini.netlify.app/courses/teach_programming/)
* Aleks: would love to work with someone on this
* Sarah: Recommend making sure to include lots of exercises to demonstrate the hands-on component of instructor training but also how that relates to the hands-on live coding in the technical workshops.
* Sam: we tried it in one day and it really didn't work. Need to tailor it to audience really
* Yani: when choosing what to teach in three hours, we prioritised personas (novice-competent practitioner-expert); concept maps; exercise formats to assess learning; importance of feedback. Had an extension that focussed on how to teach programming
* Toby: how to identify and correct errors, common mistakes made and why
* Mike: thinking about target audience.


## Trainer Meeting 6 July 2023, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230406T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230406T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Ann Post training observation: Feedback from a couple participants was about the duration of the training and if it's possible to have half days in lieu of full days?
* Went well. Was very early. Attended mostly the second day. Well run, well presented. Participants were very engaged. People asked who makes the decison about the timing because 2 days feels really long. The last breakout room some people seemed less engaged. 
* Karen: Yes, we have had many conversations about that second day. We do have a 4 half day format as well. We try to honor Trainers schedules. 
* Jordan: I give people options for breaks. I try to make space for lots of coffee and bathroom breaks
* Jake: When I am in person, I always try to make sure there are fruits and veggies. If we only give them muffins, they fall asleep. 
* Karen: Note re response to NASA-TOPS training
* Presented to GEO group of Earth Sciences. I told the story of how our evaluation processes allowed us to be responsive. There was a mismatch between are training and the participants expectations. 

**Others attending**   



* Jordan Pedersen (she/her) - University of Guelph (Canada)
* Zac Painter, Stanford University
* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Liz Stokes, (she/they) Australian Research Data Commons, Sydney
* Paula Pappalardo (she/her), Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, USA
* Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries 
* Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University
* Karl Benedict, (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Ann James, George Washington Univ

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Announcements
* This meeting will move: as of July 20/21 it will be held 1 hour later. Calendar has been updated to reflect this.
* Checkout implementation date is now July 31.
* Checkout changes Q&A
* 
* Do we evaluate if there are enough demos in a timezone? 
* Logistics question: I provided you availability for Q3. How is that communicated? 
* Karen: normally our procedure is to email everyone who we don't match. This time our scheduling period has been drawn out because we couldnt get enough events on the calendar
