


## **Trainer Meeting, 2 February 2023  UTC 14:00** 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230202T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230202T14) 

**Intro Prompt:** Name, Location, Something that people come to you for help with

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers) - post - 2-day - interactive, "coding", videos
* Mike Trizna (he/him/his) - post - 2-day (first time after a couple 4-day format)   

**Others attending**   



* Christian Knüpfer
* Kari L. Jordan
* Danielle Sieh (she/her/hers)
* Martino Sorbaro (he/him) 
* Maneesha Sane 
* Jannetta Steyn (she/her/hers), , [ how to get through instructor checkout ]
* Trisha Adamus (she/her) 
* Hao Ye (he/him), Gainesville Florida USA, [most recently, I was asked for help with an article's alliterative articulation]
* Cora Assmann,
* Aleks Nenadic, she/her/hers, 
* Toby Hodges, he/him/his

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 


## **Agenda**:



### Introductions
### DC Image Processing announcement
### Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Sarah Stevens:
* 2 day workshop, went fine, really interactive group. Ideal number about 18 then 17 (18 is divisible by 3 and 2!). New thing never seen before: in introductions someone brought up different use of "coding" - social scientists use "coding" to mean coming up with words that classify ideas or concepts in text data... etc. Have to define as programming/scripting. Revisited later with argument about "coding" meaning that something is hidden or secret and that makes it difficult. Interesting, maybe not worth changing things, but interesting to address. Accidentally skipped the videos with Lex & instead did before second live coding exercise. Very interesting - could actually go either place but they did notice more things having done it once themselves. Worked well!
* Mike: teaching about fluid representations/interchangeable words. Somebody asked what a GUI was 
* Mike: exhausted after 2nd day of longer training. Could sort of see it in the participants -- didn't have great participation in the main sections. Only 8-9 students, videos off from the beginning, not very responsive, some people in different time zones. 2 participants from Africa on East coast time. Did see that things picked up in breakout rooms, and kind of carried over after returning but would fade. Tried to do as many breakouts as possible even though this is time consuming. 
* Karen: don't know what to do about people attending wayy outside their time zone
* Trisha: this came up in last training with lots of people in Europe who wanted to adjust the curriculum so they could do more participation earlier than later. Couldn't rearrange the curriculum. 
* Sarah: first time tried to address most of the feedback in the Etherpad. Usually pick out a few things that really need a response; this time got to everything. A few comments on the first half day about breakouts. We teach about "teach most useful first" and our curriculum tries to do this but there's a lot of pedagogy you have to get through to make the most of try-things activities. We start really concept-heavy. You'll be excited for what's to come because breakouts will come is how we handle it. Addressed feedback but is always something that is a struggle to articulate to learners. That pedagogy is going to help you. Active group were talking about concepts when doing their teaching demos and really using them on day 2. Can see importance then but hard to balance and demonstrate
* Hao: very tangential question. Time zones on teaching demos etherpad. Says PM with 24h notation. Usually expect either AM/PM with 12h or 24h but not both. 
* Mike: also teaching demo google form asks for time in 24h but form expects in AM/PM format. (the one reporting after the teaching demo)
* Jannetta: I prefer 24h clock
* Martino: for me form is ok with 24h times, may depend on your google options
* Cora: new topic! In december we had feedback with advice that the teaching methodology was limited to breakouts and etherpad, could use a poll or more diverse techniques
* Sarah: have seen that too, sometimes it's why not more, sometimes it's really love this method. Do need to be careful about how many modes you introduce, that have to be explained, may have to cut more content... usually introduce some as examples, don't do all feedback mechanisms but mention them. Did other activities LIKE one-up-one-down to demonstrate that
### Announcements
* Voting is open for Trainers Leadership & ratifications. Please enter a vote even if you plan to abstain from one or more items -- we have a 60% quorum for document updates!
* New official lesson! Data Carpentry: Image Processing with Python [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/01/dc-image-processing-stable-release/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/01/dc-image-processing-stable-release/) 
* start points for demos have been added: [https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons/](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons/) 
* Q: Are there plans for additional lessons? It's being called a curriculum, but only 1 current lesson, right?
* A: this is a single-lesson curriculum (like DC Astronomy). Additional lessons may be added in future e.g. as a follow-up workshop to this one, or versions of this curriculum with domain-specific examples, but not in the next year or two, at least.
* Workbench beta timeline: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396#issuecomment-1343114003](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396#issuecomment-1343114003)
* It's that time again: Q2 scheduling will start next week!
* Reminders:
* Trainers are eligible to request Carpentries-sponsorship of instructor training for groups. Seats can be requested for any group; for dedicated events you need 2 Trainers willing to teach. Application lives in the Membership financial aid form (see [https://carpentries.org/membership/](https://carpentries.org/membership/) ) -- be sure to indicate that you are a Trainer to open up the questions about sponsored training.
* After hosting a teaching demo, please delete the contents of your Etherpad. It's good practice to click the "star" button at the top to create a save point in the history first. [https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos](https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos)


## **Trainer Meeting 2 February 2023, UTC 22:00**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230202T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230202T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Liz Stokes, ARDC Sydney (post)    
* Angela Li, Princeton (post)   

**Others attending**   



*  Ariel Deardorff, UC San Francisco
*   Murray Cadzow, University of Otago
*  Zac Painter, Stanford University
*  Mik Black, University of Otago
*  Jon Wheeler, University of New Mexico
*  Karl Benedict, University of New Mexico
*  Mark Laufersweiler, Univ of Oklahoma Libraries

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 


## **Agenda**:



### Introductions
### Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Angela: Taught w Sarah Stevens, little prep required. Hadn't done the morning day 2 in a while. Pretty good for the most part 18 is a perfect number (see above!). Learners really on top of it. 14 of 18 filled out the pre-survey! Interesting working with the new/updated DEI section. Know that some sections aren't too well built out, so did call for input on that section. Encouraging for them to hear that, did best with material that was there. Accidentally used the word "handicapped" which someone brought up as not preferred language. Carpentries exercise where people review roles in the community had them look at everything but Sarah said afterward it's better to split breakouts to have them focus on 1 topic at a time. Everyone got very overwhelmed. New goal to teach with Sarah every winter -- very complementary style. Sarah is very involved, I'm a little less involved, good balance. 
* Liz: End of last year (December) - makeup event, not really planned but lots of people in membership still to be certified and squeaked it in at the end. Would like to never do it at this time of year again. Seemed to go well, though. Lots of glowing responses, people enjoyed their time, 4 days 11-3 local time. All across Australia, some people that was 8-12. The days turn into "days" not half days. Felt a little rusty teaching; feedback picked up some hesitation around what to do and the order in which to do things. Cognitive load part is quite difficult to get into sometimes. Balancing explanation vs letting them wrestle and reflect. By day 3 it seemed fairly obvious we had found our groove, with arc of curriculum from frontloading to practice being enjoyed by all. 
* Answer to cognitive load section? Rehearsal is really important to feel comfortable. There's a difference in preparing to teach generally & really getting comfortable. Last time co-Trainer was someone who taught more frequently, so was more relevant to their work, and had more comfort guiding between instruction & activities. When they see you feel uncomfortable they worry
* Angela: relate to rusty feeling. Sarah was able to jump in as more experienced. Was it all online?
* Liz: yes. Never taught face-to-face at Instructor Training. Not sure we'd have the capacity to do that. 
* Angela: sometimes easier to fake it online. Rushing to next exercise when uncomfortable is a go-to. One thing I did this time was make an Etherpad with all the exercises and just copy and paste from there into the main one. 
* Liz: we used a google doc because Etherpads are notorious for falling down in our time zone. Would like to consider looking at CodiMD page for next time because it provides a bit more similarity to Etherpad vs google doc. Hit a limit with google docs being ok. Also this was the first time we did a self-organized training, handled signup and registration etc. Some back and forth with Kelly about finding the right slug for pre and post information. Unable to get pre-survey data before the event. (did get it eventually, but mistake in the slug). 
* also in order to save time moved introductions, didn't do a big name around. Want to go straight back to that on reflection because it gets them talking. Shifting to being faster meant the group was slower to meet each other and get talking.
* Mik: relating to use of "handicapped" or struggling for a word -- do we have a list of nice phrases that can be used acceptably/inoffensively. You've been hardwired with wrong language and you want to get it right. 
* Could ask Brynn to see about putting together a list for this purpose
* Karl: fits well with rehearsal and practice. Having that close at hand to get your brain out of its 'rut' and preparing to speak fluidly. Getting out the rust is an effort
* Talking with Jon about annotating lessons prior to instructions. Sweet spot highlighting key concepts without annotating into confusion. Is hypothes.is useful for this? How do people do this?
* Mik - rely on lesson content, key points and objectives. As we get to those things that's where we have the emphasis. 
* Liz - agree. making that structure explicit helps you. Someone did this in a teaching demo - got in their 5 minutes and started and returned to it in the 5 minutes. Sharing responsibility for learners at the start and returning to takeaways. What do you need to get confident with the keypoint? When planning lessons it's a lot of work on a whiteboard, who's doing what sections, chunking, using topic-headers as shorthand.
* Jon: I try to be strategic in coordinating with co-instructor and consider sections comfortable teaching vs. benefit from additional practice, try to balance to spend more efficient time where I need more work ahead of time. I'm not a big talker so like not to think about what I'm going to say or how to present (stressful) but prepare in a way that reinforces the mental model to be conversant about it which is the ultimate goal. Have used hypothes.is - like this right now also with workbench and instructor notes. Highlighting stands out better in hypothes.is vs workbench. Taken an etherpad and annotated the heck out of it, but often chuck the prep because it's distracting. 
* Karl: Jon's experience resembles mine. Drawing the map eliminates the need to reference the map when traveling. 
* Jon: emphasizig text on a local copy of the workbench version makes the text pink, which doesn't stand out as clearly as yellow highlighted text in hypothesis.io
### Announcements
* Voting is open for Trainers Leadership & ratifications. Please enter a vote even if you plan to abstain from one or more items -- we have a 60% quorum for document updates!
* New official lesson! Data Carpentry: Image Processing with Python [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/01/dc-image-processing-stable-release/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/01/dc-image-processing-stable-release/) 
* start points for demos have been added: [https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons/](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/demo_lessons/) 
* Workbench beta timeline: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396#issuecomment-1343114003](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396#issuecomment-1343114003)
* It's that time again: Q2 scheduling will start next week!
* Trainer training applications will open on Valentines day for training to begin in late Marchish (preferably after all participants' time has changed)
* Reminders:
* Trainers are eligible to request Carpentries-sponsorship of instructor training for groups. Seats can be requested for any group; for dedicated events you need 2 Trainers willing to teach. Application lives in the Membership financial aid form (see [https://carpentries.org/membership/](https://carpentries.org/membership/) ) -- be sure to indicate that you are a Trainer to open up the questions about sponsored training.
* After hosting a teaching demo, please delete the contents of your Etherpad. It's good practice to click the "star" button at the top to create a save point in the history first. [https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos](https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos)
