


**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting, 2 March 2023  UTC 14:00 </span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230302T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230302T14) 

Training discussion (pre and post):



*    

Others attending   



* Kelly Barnes, The Carpentries 
* Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries
* Mark Laufersweiler, Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
* Kari L. Jordan
* Trisha Adamus (she/her), University of Wisconsin - Madison
* Aleksandra Nenadic, she/her, Software Sustainability Institute, University of Manchester, UK
* Maneesha Sane 
* Jannetta Steyn, Newcastle University, UK
* Sher! Hurt, The Carpentries

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Announcements
* Q2 calendar is complete and will be posted as soon as Zhian is back (see 'Styles version', below!)
* We LOVE to have 3rd Trainers on events so please feel free to invite yourself along if you weren't matched or didn't have your availability clear yet! 
* The deadline for Maintainer onboarding has been extended to 8 March. Please encourage community-members to try growing in this role! [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/02/Apply-for-the-current-round-of-Carpentries-Maintainer-Onboarding/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/02/Apply-for-the-current-round-of-Carpentries-Maintainer-Onboarding/)
* Alycia Crall (Director of Community) is now hosting regular office hours. Check them out! 
* [https://pad.carpentries.org/director-of-community-office-hours](https://pad.carpentries.org/director-of-community-office-hours)
* Trainer Training applications are currently in review. 31 submitted, lots of strong applicants! 
* Would like to test out an approach to involving current Trainers in Trainer Training, maybe inviting guest-hosts for one or more sessions. Stay tuned for more and let Karen know if this interests you.
* Checkout project update:
* Moving from scoping to actual planning, but this will still take some time. Implementation of changes to requirements should be possible by June. 
* We will share some general information with the broader community, but probably will not share detailed plans in advance due to risk of adding confusion to current requirements.
* New Trainers Leadership begins onboarding next week! Woo hoo!
* Playing with the Workbench
* Reminder regarding beta phase: PRs to our repo affect the Workbench version. However, the public links to our curriculum still go to the Styles version, which is locked (except when we ask Zhian to help us post things, as with the calendar). Trainers are encouraged to teach using the Workbench version and share feedback on how that goes.
* All-in-one page: need to manually expand instructor notes before printing
* Return to top of page, expand all exercises have buttons

**<span style="text-decoration:underline;">Trainer Meeting 2 March 2023, UTC 22:00</span>**

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230302T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230302T22)

Training discussion (pre and post):



*    Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech
*    Jon Wheeler, he/him, University of New Mexico

Others attending   



* Zac Painter, Stanford University
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, US
* Mik Black (he/him), Univerity of Otago, Dunedin, NZ
* Tim Dennis (he/him), UCLA, the zoom code
* Karl Benedict (he/him), UNM
* Murray Cadzow (he/him), University of Otago, Dunedin, NZ
* Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ
* Mark Crowe, QCIF, he/him

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions: one thing you try to remember (but sometimes forget) when teaching
* language - accessible or just better ways of saying things
* writing down prompts for breakouts
* telling people when breaks are
* Slide says biochem/not a chemist (clarifying a misleading title!)
* remembering the zoom host code!
* having learners guess what a script will produce
* reduce talking! slowing things down
* telling people your background
* "just" "easy" "simple" etc
* 2 minute break every 45 minutes plan is easy to forget
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Jon and Karl Feb 15-16
* Jon: Overall went well, quiet group (unusually so) but still pretty engaged in exercises, very active in breakouts, pretty good discussions, but much harder than usual to read how things were going. Had less time to prepare for this one, so leaned on content, just read through and focused on key points and end points. 16 people 13 survey responses, positive feedback, many calls for more breaks. Would like ot try that 2 minutes every 45 minutes. Not necessarily 5 minutes between each episode (too much) but try to build in more time.
* Karl: learning experience in online environment: ended up with a pronoun incident with a reference inconsistent with preferred pronouns. Had asked people comfortalbe doing so to add them to their name but in transition to second day some of them dropped out. So we didn't have the reminder. Not a major kerfuffle but there was a correction made. Keep that in mind -- moving from day to day annotating Zoom titles may be lost
* Jon: did get some feedback rom that learner to encourage everyone to pay attention to preferred pronouns. Similar to discussions of CoC I try to think from Instructors point of view but not thinking about everyone using them
* Karen: did you change things in response to quiet group?
* Jon: mainly let things be. Seemed to be ok in breakouts just lulls in conversation. Took in faith that they were there.
* Karl: evidence of engagement ebbed and flowed. Seeking folks to step forward wasn't terribly difficult but needed a little work to draw out more quiet folks. Wasn't lack of participation when asked. Enjoyed breakouts
* Nathaniel
* 4 day event with Jordan Pedersen. Exact opposite! 20-21 learners everyone wanting to talk all the time. Very active discussion group, reworked things to allow more discussion, less etherpad except when we needed to save time. Jordan had good ideas to help improve ZOom experience. She told people we like it when cameras are on but we know it's hard, so maybe switch off half of you have them off now and half later. This worked really well, they self-regulated and kept about 50/50. Chair yoga youtube clips appreciated by some. Sticky situations with learners at different levels: tried turning that on its head and ask them to think about challenges they have experienced in community of learners at different levels. A little more grounded. There was enough diversity that people could talk about different experiences. Will play with this more but worked especially well with group that liked to share personal experience. Very enthusiastic group. Many asking about different ways to volunteer!
* Some people had a hard time bouncing back and forth between etherpad, zoom chat, etc
* Any other window juggling advice?
* Karl: many learners are on small screens, don't have the ability to arrange windows.
* Mik: when we teach we usually have the co-trainer keeping an eye out for chat messages.
* Nathaniel: not so much instructors problem as fellow learners. Not everything gets raised verbally so they  are trying to communicate with each other on the side.
* Announcements
* Q2 calendar is complete and will be posted as soon as Zhian is back (see 'Styles version', below!)
* We LOVE to have 3rd Trainers on events so please feel free to invite yourself along if you weren't matched or didn't have your availability clear yet! 
* The deadline for Maintainer onboarding has been extended to 8 March. Please encourage community-members to try growing in this role! [https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/02/Apply-for-the-current-round-of-Carpentries-Maintainer-Onboarding/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/02/Apply-for-the-current-round-of-Carpentries-Maintainer-Onboarding/)
* Alycia Crall (Director of Community) is now hosting regular office hours. Check them out! 
* [https://pad.carpentries.org/director-of-community-office-hours](https://pad.carpentries.org/director-of-community-office-hours)
* Instructors are now having monthly calls hosted by the WAT. Check them out!
* Trainer Training applications are currently in review. 31 submitted, lots of strong applicants! 
* Would like to test out an approach to involving current Trainers in Trainer Training, maybe inviting guest-hosts for one or more sessions. Stay tuned for more and let Karen know if this interests you.
* Checkout project update:
* Moving from scoping to actual planning, but this will still take some time. Implementation of changes to requirements should be possible by June. 
* We will share some general information with the broader community, but probably will not share detailed plans in advance due to risk of adding confusion to current requirements.
* New Trainers Leadership begins onboarding next week! Woo hoo!
* Playing with the Workbench
* Reminder regarding beta phase: PRs to our repo affect the Workbench version. However, the public links to our curriculum still go to the Styles version, which is locked (except when we ask Zhian to help us post things, as with the calendar). Trainers are encouraged to teach using the Workbench version and provide feedback on how that goes.
* noticed that timings that were on the front page were really important. Not just episode timings, but whole event timings
* feature request? Built in timer!
* Planning spreadsheet with timings: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fPxnk8vuMjLHDCa1H5WPqtmVRxYTToGfTc9qp9v7bNQ/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fPxnk8vuMjLHDCa1H5WPqtmVRxYTToGfTc9qp9v7bNQ/edit?usp=sharing)
* 4-day example modification: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Xiv8CtRowMmIskdjvlQcJC7cJqDXedO7TuUvVctBzQk/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Xiv8CtRowMmIskdjvlQcJC7cJqDXedO7TuUvVctBzQk/edit?usp=sharing)
