
## Trainer Meeting, 15 June 2023  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230615T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230615T14) 

**Attending**   

* Mateusz Kuzak (he/him/his), Netherlands eScience Center
* Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries
* Toby Hodges (he/him/his)
* Samantha Ahern(she/her/hers), UCL
* Martino Sorbaro, ETH Zurich
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Jannetta Steyn (she/her/hers), Newcastle University, UK
* Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries
* Jake Szamosi
* Karen Word (she/her) 
* Annajiat Alim Rasel

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
  * Announcements
    * We are looking for additional Trainers to teach in Q3. Please let us know if you are available:
    * Eastern or Central Daylight Time (UTC -4 or -5), either 2-day or 4-half-day between July 24-27
    * Eastern Daylight time (UTC -4) 4-half days 9am-1pm August 15-18
    * British or Central European Summer time (UTC +1 or +2), either 2-day or 4-half-day between September 19-22
    * OR return to the scheduling form to share your availability: [https://forms.gle/wPz4zxu171TrBoZo6](https://forms.gle/wPz4zxu171TrBoZo6) 
  * We need a few more testers interested in checking out changes to our database (AMY) between **28 June and 7 July**. Let us know if you can help!
  * Upcoming changes to checkout!
    * Email sent to Trainers list
    * Draft changes to the Checkout instructions page 
    * [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files)
    * Draft changes to the Lessons for Teaching Demos page
    * [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545/files](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545/files)
    * live version of what that updated page looks like: [https://tobyhodges.github.io/expert-eureka/demo_lessons.html](https://tobyhodges.github.io/expert-eureka/demo_lessons.html)
    * Draft blog post
    * [https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view](https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view)
    * Read the blog post, it's a nice summary. My only concern is that some new instructors may choose an ineligible episode. Will we provide a list of suggestions?
    * Beyond the lessons for demos page? We could consider a short-list
    Q: will people signed up for teaching demos already get emails about preparing only one episode instead or is it up to the host to inform them?
    A: We will be sending an email to everyone who has completed training but not yet completed checkout. We will also be updating the template for Trainers to send but we aren’t sure how that is currently used (hence questions about this in the Etherpad)

**Formative assessment!**

1. When you are hosting a teaching demonstration, do you email your trainees in advance?
  * Yes - I compose a message or use my own template for this XX
  * Yes - I use the email template in The Carpentries Handbook  XXxX
  * No x
  * I’ve never hosted a teaching demo / don’t remember xx
1. You are hosting a demo. One of your trainees has prepared an episode that does not include any participatory content, as indicated on the lessons for demos page. How will you handle this situation?
  * does this mean they have prepared an episode not in the list of suggestions?
  * yes - specifically on the list of ineligible episodes, or even a lesson from the Incubator/elsewhere
  * I would try to politely explain that the episode is ineligible, but also encourage thm to still stay and watch and feedback on the other demos. Would send a follow-up email and maybe suggest a more suitable episode(s) and encourage to sign-up for another demo sessions
  * If it is prior to the session and i see it in the etherpad, I would email them directly explaining that episode doesn't have any live coding and they need to pick a different episode, with suggestions to episodes in the same lesson and a link to the suggested starting points table.  If it is at the beginning of a demo and I notice it, I would mention the episode they chose doesn't give them a chance to practice live coding and ask them to sign up for another teaching demo session and give the links etc I mentioned above.
  * It wouI wouldx 
  *  Explplain that this episode cannot be used for demo, clarify the requirements and ask them to prepare one of the episodes from the list and subscribe for the new demo session. If they pasted the link to the episode in advance I would email them about it.
  *  It would come up earlier as I would check the ether pad multiple times before the demo. Even if it doesn't,  I would explain and provide alternative schedule or request to sign up for another session 
  * I would explain the requirements and ask them if they would like to continue, or set up a different time to do the teaching demo with me
  * Assuming this is a question on the new policies as written in the new docs: I offer them to either try another episode, or to reschedule.
  * If an ineligible episode in an official lesson, I would gently break the news that they cannot do their demo with that lesson and should reschedule, take a moment to talk through the page/tables and explain why some episodes are not eligible. I might let them use a lesson from the Incubator if they had asked me in advance, and if I felt comfortable with the content and maturity of that lesson. But I would not allow someone to use an Incubator episode spontaneously.
  *  I would offer them an opportunity to teach another episode in the lesson if they feel comfortable doing so, with an alternative of returning at another time after preparing that episode. Make sure they leave with an episode they know will work to perform next time.
  * I would allow them to teach the lesson so as not to make them feel embarrassed in front of the other trainees, but I would email them afterwards with feedback about their teaching and also ask them to redo the demo with one of the "acceptable" lessons. If I learned about the plan before the demo started, I would email them and ask them to choose a different lesson.
  * Is there a middle ground, give them the option of still demoing as a practice, or would that be unfair on others?
1. Which of the following can/should be counted for the Get Involved step?*
  * Helping at a registered Carpentries workshop. XXXXXxxX
  * Teaching locally using Carpentries curricula (not a registered workshop) X
  * We'd rather this not be used because this may not really be engagement with The Carpentries
  * Attending a regional Carpentries community call XXXXXxxX
  * Only counts for the get involved step, not for the Welcome session.
  * Caveat: for the first 90 days if people REALLY don't want to attend a Welcome session we will continue to let them count a discussion for that step, but they can't count the same session for both Welcome and Get Involved. (basically so that people who have previously attended Instructor Training don't feel like they have a surprise new requiremen
  * Submitting a PR to _a fork_ of a Carpentries curriculumXx?
  * We'd rather not encourage this because The Carpentries CoC doesn't apply outside of Carpentries repositories (also contributions to forks are not contributions to Carpentries lessons)
  * Commenting on an issue in The Carpentries Incubator XXXXxX
  * Emailing The Carpentries with a suggested change to a (Carpentries i.e. official?) lesson CXxXXX
1. You’re teaching an Instructor Training event and a trainee asks for clarification on how they should report their Get Involved step. What do you say?
  * I'd check on whether this would be useful for group. If yes, I look at documentation collaboratively. If no, then would follow-up seperately either end of that session or via email
  * I would point them to the documentation. We can look at the documentation together and see where the confusion is, if reading it is not enough.
  * I would pull up my amy profile and show them where to submit the get involved step.
  * email url of the contribution to the checkout@carpentries.org, although now I would probably show how to do it via AMY
  *   I would point them to the documentation and also provide a link to AMY (maybe to the specific page in AMY, if I know it), and be prepared to answer/find an answer to more specific questions.
1. What additional questions should we ask?

What should we say about welcome calls? It's likely that trainees will ask
*Note: we will not be dedicating significant staff time to validating activities submitted for this step. This means that some submissions that "should" not count may be accepted anyway.


## Trainer Meeting 15 June 2023, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230615T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230615T22)

**Pre post workshop**

Liz, ARDC Sydney - upcoming

**Attending**   



*  Zac Painter, Stanford
*  Paula Pappalardo, Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
* Ann Myatt James, George Washington University, Washington DC
* Masami Yamaguchi, Sydney Australia
* Jesica Formoso, Buenos Aires University, Buenos Aires, Argentina

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



* Introductions
  * One problem with checkout you look forward / hope to be solved with the updates
* Announcements
  * We are looking for additional Trainers to teach in Q3. Please let us know if you are available:
    * Eastern or Central Daylight Time (UTC -4 or -5), either 2-day or 4-half-day between July 24-27
    * Eastern Daylight time (UTC -4) 4-half days 9am-1pm August 15-18
    * British or Central European Summer time (UTC +1 or +2), either 2-day or 4-half-day between September 19-22
    * OR return to the scheduling form to share your availability: [https://forms.gle/wPz4zxu171TrBoZo6](https://forms.gle/wPz4zxu171TrBoZo6) 
  * We need a few more testers interested in checking out changes to our database (AMY) between **28 June and 7 July**. Let us know if you can help!
  * Upcoming changes to checkout!
    * Email sent to Trainers list
    * [https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/Tf67dbf6263930d3a/important-upcoming-changes-to-checkout-and-meetings-this-week](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/Tf67dbf6263930d3a/important-upcoming-changes-to-checkout-and-meetings-this-week)
    * Draft changes to the Checkout instructions page 
    * [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1548/files)
    * Draft changes to the Lessons for Teaching Demos page
    * [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545/files](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1545/files)
    *  [https://tobyhodges.github.io/expert-eureka/demo_lessons.html](https://tobyhodges.github.io/expert-eureka/demo_lessons.html) shows table accurately but does not include added changes to text at the top of the page
    * Draft blog post
    * [https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view](https://codimd.carpentries.org/LRLiRh3bST6UDPAMDmJ_gQ?view)

**Formative assessment!**



1. When you are hosting a teaching demonstration, do you email your trainees in advance?
  * Yes - I compose a message or use my own template for this Xx - not an email, it's a calendar invite
  * Yes - I use the email template in The Carpentries Handbook X
  * No
  * I’ve never hosted a teaching demo / don’t remember X XX
1. You are hosting a demo. One of your trainees has prepared an episode that does not include any participatory content, as indicated on the lessons for demos page. How will you handle this situation?
  * I would just move on from the point we are at now and not say anything in public, and then in the checkout email ask them to repeat or reschedule. I am usually willing to reschedule with them individually if desired, otherwise they should just sign up for another demo.
  * I would very politely ask them to sign up for another demo explaining them why. Just red the first answer, I liked it better.
  * I would ask them to go with another episode. If they are not ready, ask them to try another demo session
  * Contact them as soon as I'm aware of the error. So, ideally I catch the error when I email them and check against the suggested/avoid episodes. I'f I'm discovering this at the demo, this would need to be a gentle correction. "Do you have any other episode you are willing to demonstrate today?" If not though hmm. All practice is good practice. Let's go with what you have chosen, but it won't count for your demo."
  * I would ask them to book another date, but perhaps if we are not many offer them to give them feedback and to practice delivery if they are interested
  * Interesting choice. In the past, we've found this may not be the best content for a teaching demo. But, let's try it and see how it goes. If it's not working, we may need to try an alternate lesson on a different day as I need to make sure that you're assessed on the basis of live, participatory coding.+1 this is kind and honest
1. Which of the following can/should be counted for the Get Involved step?*
  * Helping at a registered Carpentries workshopxX XXXYes!Should
  * Teaching locally using Carpentries curricula (not a registered workshop) XXCan
  * probably not, too variable 
  * Attending a regional Carpentries community call XXxXshould
  * Submitting a PR to a fork of a Carpentries curriculumXCanx?
  * no, no CoC applicable on a fork
  * Commenting on an issue in The Carpentries Incubator Can XxXX
  * Emailing The Carpentries with a suggested change to a lessonxXX

(Meta-reflection: can/should was ultimately a useful provocation for engaging with this question! Doing some formative asessment ourselves is a brilliant masterstroke for getting into the mindset of training. I want more!)



1. You’re teaching an Instructor Training event and a trainee asks for clarification on how they should report their Get Involved step. What do you say?
  * Self report in Amy? will re read that part :), yes, self report in AMY
  * So this is the preferred mode.
  * It depends on how you got involved? Need to re read. 
  * Ultimately, email The Carpentries with what you've done. +1+1
  * We have a great website with that information, can I get your email address and I'll send it over to you?  +1 
1. What additional questions should we ask?

*Note: we will not be dedicating significant staff time to validating activities submitted for this step. This means that some submissions that "should" not count may be accepted anyway.
