## Trainer Meeting, 20 July 2023  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=2023xxxxT14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=2023xxxxT14) 

**Others attending**   



* Christian Knüpfer (he/him), University of Jena, Germany
* Samantha ahern (she/her), UCL, UK
* Hao Ye (he/him), UPenn / Community for Rigor
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries (in Cupertino, CA at the moment)
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Anne Fouilloux (she/her/hers), Simula Research Laboratory, Norway
* Maneesha Sane, The Carpentries 
* Toby Hodges (he/him)
* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Kelly Barnes (she/her), The Carpentries
* Rooweither Mabuya (she/her), South Africa
* Pao Corrales (she/her), Buenos Aires
* Martino Sorbaro (he/him), Zurich
* Lisanna Paladin (she/they), Heidelberg (DE)
* Veronica Jimenez Jacinto (she/her) Universidad Nacional Autonoma de  Mexico
* Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
* Jannetta Steyn (she/her/hers), Newcastle Univervisty, UK

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

Agenda:



* Introductions
* Announcements
* Topic of the month [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1557](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1557)

Please join us at our Trainer meeting this week for a focus group on a small and interesting pull request in the Instructor Training curriculum. The Maintainers have identified this as needing further discussion because it relates to our core values. 

Specifically, this proposed change raises a question about where we draw boundaries regarding inclusivity of ideas, philosophies, and values that are at odds with information or positions we have expressed. It asks that we remove an example of a fundamental belief that is a misconception, on the basis that the example is not necessary and not inclusive of people who hold that belief.

On its surface, this is a minor request because the example is, indeed, unnecessary. We could use any example for this content. As a general rule, we prefer to be inclusive of all, except where that conflicts with our core content. Our community consists of many people who presumably hold a diverse array of religious views, and we want them all to feel that they belong.

    	However, the reasoning behind this proposed change has been highlighted as being important and hazardous. Reasons cited include:



1. Any “fundamental belief” that is a non-fictional example of a misconception will be, by definition, a belief that some people hold.
1. Choosing which beliefs are appropriate to cite as examples could be based on how common those beliefs are. However, the practice of favoring majorities often leads to harm when applied in other contexts.
1. In a community of scientists and other research-adjacent people, presenting established facts like the age of the earth in examples should be acceptable and expected.
1. Changing a statement that meets our standards in response to views that reject scientific evidence in favor of religious or spiritual views is, in a way, a “tolerance of intolerance.” Even though the “intolerance” in this case is rejection of an unimportant fact, the practice of accommodating requests on this basis would lead to harm when applied in other contexts.

This is an interesting problem and a useful example for our community to consider. 

**The purpose of this meeting is to gather thoughts and share an opportunity to reflect on this example.** Trainers Leadership and curriculum Maintainers will review feedback when they determine the best response for this PR. A few questions to consider are:

What do you think is important or interesting about the request?



* I'm glad someone felt comfortable enough raising it as an issue.
* I was a little surprised that it was raised, I would assume it was an accepted fact. I can see for Creationists it could be problematic, but not sure it should be changed. I could only imagine a small number of Creationists raising it. But should the minority mean it should be disregarded? Established science versus belief is tricky.
* This may only be an issue in the US, but given the activism of vocal minorities related to book banning, challenging educational materials and curricula that make them "uncomfortable", I wonder if this really is a harmless example. What would be the expectations for instructors who believe the earth is only 4000 years old, or that "only god can change the climate" within a workshop context? How much leverage can we afford to give to people who deny science, when we are teaching scientific computing? Inclusivity works both ways - people with varied beliefs should be welcome, but will they also be inclusive of opposing viewpoints? The evidence in many contexts here is that thay are not.
* I understand where the suggestion is coming from and I understand that removing the example would be the choice that implies less "taking a stand" on anything. However, this specific topic - being this a scientific community - sounds like one that represents a community value. In summary, I would not remove the example.
* I think it is convenient to take those examples that do not generate controversy, always within a framework of respect but also being rigorous in the scientific foundations of what is included
* I think a 'where do we draw the boundary' conversation is a useful conversation. It is nice to see that we have values and we like to uphold them. It is also nice to see that we don't do it blindly in the name of an all-in idea of inclusivity that does not require further thought.
* I agree with Hao (below) pretty much entirely. I would add that I was taught, starting in primary school, that sometimes religious beliefs and scientific beliefs are incompatible; this does not mean we need to choose between the two. A person who is religious, but sufficiently open-minded, should be able to see these kinds of facts in context and switch between the two perspectives. I feel we would risk a slippery slope - what if we're asked to balance evolutionary theory with creationism?
* "non-fictional example of a misconception" is quoted above  -- Are we defining what's fact and what's fiction? Fact is the earth is 4.5 billion years old; fiction is the earth is 4000 years old.  I would not want to be taught by someone who believes the fiction.  I would not remove the example.
* Interesting to discuss about where are our boundaries. The requester does not discuss about "believing that human beings cannot affect the planet's climate." while this statement would not be appreciated by climate deniers. 
* We're talking about this one example of a misconception that one person in our community raised. Does this really represent the feelings of a significant portion of our community? I also fear the slippery slope... now that we have validated this comment through this discussion (and if we incorporate this change) what other things will we have to consider and change? 

    **Notes** 

* When you first look at it, its a fact, and why should we change it, but the belief part is tricky. If it was something else, would we change it? Is it the science vs belief part here that is the problem? I got myself into a bit of a knot with it. 
* The heart of the problem is the question is this the value of this community to be scientifcic? If so, it is not only addressing misconceptions, but about bringing into the discussion the values of the community. I feel the carpentries is a scientific community. 
* In the context fo training, I'm fine with being includive but its hard for me to not think more broadly about what is happening in the US. Diversity is being criminalized. At what point do we have to take a stand. I dont want to cultivate the idea that we are operating outside the culture wars.  
* What we teach in Instructor training is about evidence based practices, in this section we are talking about misconceptions and its hard to talk about without talking about evidence. I'm ok with removing this specific example, but we should be careful of replacing it with an example that does the same thing but is more inclusive is difficult. 
* Reminds me of what my religion teacher said, religion and science can be at odds, but a modern relgiious person can switch between the two in context. I expect that someon in this community can see both things in context. Risk of slippery slope. 
* I'm for teaching the controversey, but in being more practical, is this the right forum for science facts. Is it important to the lesson? If we want to talk evolution vs. creation in the genomics lesson, thats a different thing. I'm not happy with the censorship, but I dont think this is the right forum to have this fight. If it is relevant to the lesson, I dont think we should take it out, but here it is not relevant. 
* In this case we are saying the belief is wrong. Any example that isnt fictional is going to be telling someone that they are wrong. 
* Examples are needed. Leaving the section without an example would miss the teaching part. 
* This is tricky because it is about religion. Maybe we should find an example that is not about religion.
* The lesson sounds like we are saying this is a belief that needs to be changed. One possibility is to change the prhasing a bit. 
* A couple of points to think about 
* Number of people - this is hazardous way of thinking because going with the majority has been used for opression
* Should we focus on fixed mindset instead? 
* We live in a diverse world. We all believe different things. I think the transfer of skills is the most important thing. 

**If the request is not accepted, what do you think should be communicated to the submitter when closing?**



* The carpentries is mostly a community of scientists, and we assume learners should be able to appreciate, epistemologically, the importance of scientific facts, even if they (also?) hold other beliefs.
1. I think the submitter should be made aware that the carpentries is a inclusive community and what is mostly important is the transfer of skills.
* that it does not fully fit our values: we are constantly learning and fundamentalists are not necessarily welcoming all the Carpentries members (for instance LGBT+).

**Do you have any other suggestions for addressing the problem cited in the PR in an alternative way?**



* Maybe we remove the bit about fundamental beliefs, or at least re-work that section. Saying any belief is wrong is problematic. If keeping and giving an example, maybe not a religious one.
* It could be phrased in a way that refers to "fundamental beliefs that are in general hard to change" rather than "fundamental misconceptions that we should change but will have trouble changing".+1+1
* Later in the training we discuss fixed mindsets, especially those around technical skill. Perhaps a solution in such cases would be to frontload the later discussion by emphasizing fixed mindset types of beliefs rather than potentially controversial ones. This would also avoid the problem of fictional vs. non-fictional examples. +1
* Ask for another example before removing it: it is useful to have relevant examples but maybe we can try to avoid any examples related to religion.
* I don't think avoiding examples related to religion will help... for example, climate change deniers often come with political/economic motivations, not religious ones
* What happens if a learner brings up an example that falls into this category? Change in the curriculum is one thing, in a  live teaching event, how do we then respond. 

Google form for async/private submissions: [https://forms.gle/X3swbsjxNkdtmXRN6](https://forms.gle/X3swbsjxNkdtmXRN6)

One Trainer’s comments 

1. I agree with the prior points that any non-fictional example of a misconception that is a "fundamental belief" will be a belief that some people hold.

2. In my mind, the pedagogical tradeoff is whether a set of fictional examples would be as effective as a set of non-fictional examples.



1. a. I certainly think fictional examples could be, especially if said examples are acknowledged as being both misconceptions, relate to social identity, and could be presented as "misconceptions" while being as inclusive as possible.
1. b. Some examples: "Santa Claus will bring me coal if I misbehave this year" "[fictional sports team] is the best and anyone who disagrees is not intelligent enough to understand [fictional sport]" "boiled eggs should always be broken on the small end first" [thanks Jonathan Swift] [[bonus computing pun with big-endian vs little-endian]]

3. I don't interpret the ask as Intolerance. Asking for "age of Earth" not to be used as an example is NOT, in itself, a non-inclusive action. So I don't think the Paradox of Tolerance applies.



1. a. At the same time, a general conversation about the age of Earth in a casual context or scientific context is not a non-inclusive action either.
1. b. Presenting someone's fundamental beliefs as a misconception IS potentially a CoC violation. (depending on degree, context, repetition, etc.)
1. c. These are my judgments as the member of a Code of Conduct Committee for a different org.

4. I do believe there is an impetus to create educational materials that are as inclusive as reasonably possible. If there is a way to present examples of types of misconceptions that are fundamental beliefs that are equally or more educationally salient while being more inclusive, I believe that to be the appropriate thing to do in alignment with Carpentries Values.



1. a. I think adding a note about potential conflicts in Carpentries teaching and fundamental beliefs is something that could happen. Some guidance for instructors in noting this and using the relevant teaching context to inform decision making would be useful.
1. b. Creating guidance for what are the appropriate contexts where certain consensus science conclusions will be prioritized over fundamental beliefs.

5. In terms of feedback to the submitter, some guidance that contributions should acknowledge the educational purpose of existing lessons and seek to fulfill that purpose while seeking alignment with Carpentries values is desired. We should encourage dialogue around contributions and the appropriate venue for this would be in an issue, not a PR to remove content.+1+1+1

6. I am against "purity tests" for the Carpentries community - if folks can abide by the CoC, core values, and generally contributing in some way - I want to welcome them.


## Trainer Meeting 20 July 2023, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=2023xxxxT22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=2023xxxxT22)

**Attending**   



* Zac Painter, Stanford
* Paula Pappalardo, Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
* Karl Benedict, University of New Mexico
* Jeff Oliver, he/him, University of Arizona

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

Agenda:



* Introductions
* Announcements
* Topic of the month
*  [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1557](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1557)

Please join us at our Trainer meeting this week for a focus group on a small and interesting pull request in the Instructor Training curriculum. The Maintainers have identified this as needing further discussion because it relates to our core values. 

Specifically, this proposed change raises a question about where we draw boundaries regarding inclusivity of ideas, philosophies, and values that are at odds with information or positions we have expressed. It asks that we remove an example of a fundamental belief that is a misconception, on the basis that the example is not necessary and not inclusive of people who hold that belief.

On its surface, this is a minor request because the example is, indeed, unnecessary. We could use any example for this content. As a general rule, we prefer to be inclusive of all, except where that conflicts with our core content. Our community consists of many people who presumably hold a diverse array of religious views, and we want them all to feel that they belong.

 However, the reasoning behind this proposed change has been highlighted as being important and hazardous. Reasons cited include:


1. Any “fundamental belief” that is a non-fictional example of a misconception will be, by definition, a belief that some people hold.
1. Choosing which beliefs are appropriate to cite as examples could be based on how common those beliefs are. However, the practice of favoring majorities often leads to harm when applied in other contexts.
1. In a community of scientists and other research-adjacent people, presenting established facts like the age of the earth in examples should be acceptable and expected.
1. Changing a statement that meets our standards in response to views that reject scientific evidence in favor of religious or spiritual views is, in a way, a “tolerance of intolerance.” Even though the “intolerance” in this case is rejection of an unimportant fact, the practice of accommodating requests on this basis would lead to harm when applied in other contexts.

This is an interesting problem and a useful example for our community to consider. 

**The purpose of this meeting is to gather thoughts and share an opportunity to reflect on this example.** Trainers Leadership and curriculum Maintainers will review feedback when they determine the best response for this PR. A few questions to consider are:



* **What do you think is important or interesting about the request?**
1. * The example and proposed change is grounded in a fundamental belief difference, but also grounded in different "ways of knowing" in which we have a long tradition of distinguishing between a western scientific empirical way of knowing vs. faith-based ways of knowing. As this crosses those frameworks it poses is a challenge to a core and parallel way of knowing that many may have in parallel with others. 

**Notes:**



* it's a real example of the example. 
* our focus is appropriately on the scientific frame. Maybe a case that there is an unnecessary conflict introduced between different frameworks for knowledge. Larger conflict of frameworks of knowledge, not just different facts within the same framework.
* this is a fairly harmless statement from a fundamentalist Christian standpoint; as opposed to perhaps other beliefs which might be argued that induce harm on people. We make a big deal about not disparaging technology choices. OK with this particular example, could also see where people could take issue with the climate change example, but there probably is a difference between religious beliefs on this topic vs climate change.
* Looking at the lesson: is there a reason why we are responsible for someone who may be offended by the statement? They are all listed as misconceptions, but someone could take exception to anything. We changed the stereotype threat section because it was an example of stereotype threat. People will disagree about a lot of things we stand for: antiracism etc. Are we ok with language that potentially alienates some of our learners? 
* Maybe important to keep, because it is an actual fundamental belief that we could encounter in our learners. If we don't put a stake in it and insist on empirical statements of knowledge... we are making a statement about where we are coming from. We could be more explicit in framing misconceptions around an empirical, scientific framework rather than an ideological one.
* Maybe we don't need the age-of-the-earth example... are people actually likely to encounter this in Carpentries curricula?
* Is this a context where it's necessary? If it isn't contributing directly to our educational goal maybe not. But in training Instructors/Trainers having this on the radar is important. Would argue for keeping but maybe reframing to think about how beliefs might manifest in training.
* Are the examples necessary?
* Think so because faith-based belief systems can come into play differently.
* sun revolving around the earth, size of the earth, flat earth, maybe some alternatives don't generate the same vociferous response.
* Note the example of a fundamental belief doesn't have any advice on how to resolve it.
* We potentially tell people are wrong on the first two points, but the third one will offend people. In all 3 cases we are telling them they are wrong. Why are we worried about stepping around the last one?
* When teaching against fundamental beliefs, there are strategies to maintain engagement while still staying true to scientific principles (example from teaching evolution)

**Do you have any other suggestions for addressing the problem cited in the PR in an alternative way?**



* A misconception held long ago that is generally not held today. Flat Earth society still exists... would be really nice to have a real example there.
* Sun revolving around the earth/ geocentrism.
* Talking more about what a misconception is (see notes above) in this way

**If the request is not accepted, what do you think should be communicated to the submitter when closing?**

Google form for async/private submissions: [https://forms.gle/X3swbsjxNkdtmXRN6](https://forms.gle/X3swbsjxNkdtmXRN6)
