Trainers Leadership 2024-04-11

Present: Sher, Jon, Liz, Intekhab, Annajiat

Apologies: Nathaniel

### Agenda
----------------------

-   Core team update
    -   Sher: Trainer meeting topics
        -   May - teaching to novices
            -   Insights that experienced trainers can give to novices.
        -   June - How to Use AMY
            -   Trainers often skip sections of how we operate, and it
                could be useful to devote some time to how to use Amy to
                record checkout progress.
        -   July - Redesign R Ecology
        -   August - Instructor Notes for what to skip
        -   Sept - Recommendations for teaching demo starting points
        -   Oct - Jargon Busting
            [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1655](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1655)
            -   Including episode/lesson difference
        -   Nov - Creating a workshop website
            -   This is also something that gets skipped a lot but is
                very useful to the Core Team.
        -   Dec - Time for signing up for demo
	- Jon: have reflected on the AMY side - there's not a lot on this in the IT curriculum (perhaps this section could be refined). Could it be more info ready for trainers, and some time to do hands on AMY processes in the trainer meeting that would be good. Recent development in AMY has been great.
	- Sher: more info in Welcome sessions on AMY.
	- Intekhab: Are we talking about AMY use in general, or more how new instructors can learn to use the system? AMY is hardly mentioned in the training, so that might have a little more emphasis. But we're also discussing how to get instructors to use it more?
	- Sher: Yes, getting instructors to use it is also a topic, in addition to showing them how to use it.
	- Liz: Could this be a skill-up topic or session? Give people an opportunity to practice and receive an info sheet. Results of trainer's survey and skilling up for trainers in pedagogy, best practices, etc., was a common concern or issue in the survey. Perhaps some could be covered a session on teaching to novices. But also need to consider what trainers and instructors value in being part of the community - including current issues like generative AI impact on data science. These kinds of topics could be of interest.
	- Sher: Jargon busting definitions. Conversation last week about not being able to find the definitions for clearly describing terms like lesson, episode, etc.
	- Jon: Exercise on jargon busting in how we operate - expectation is that trainees do their homework. Considered taking it out of how we operate and add it into the welcome back to day 2. Pro - surface questions about terminologies earlier. Consider also how we answer the questions - usually via etherpad, and does anyone really go back and check those answers?
	- Sher: Also name that term activity could be incorporated.
	- Sher: Trainer response survey to go out to those who did not respond to the Q2 survey. Will go out at toward the end of the month to help prepare for Q3 scheduling. Also, for Q3 we will try the option of pre-selecting the dates to see how that works. 
	- Liz: Does that require some back and forth with the member institutions to identify potential conflicts, holidays, etc.?
	- Sher: We can consider that. Lots of back and forth among Core Team in terms of selecting dates. There will still be an opportunity to identify dates that work for trainers individually.
	- Sher: Blog post. Everyone please look/contribute and let us know if it is ready to go. [Blog and bios] <link redacted>. Include a sentence or two to encourage trainers to sign up to teach workshops (instructor trainings).

-   Proposals and pull requests
    -   Liz: Referring to the issues in the repo, some are old. Need to determine what is within scope of the TLC and most relevant to trainers. Address issues that help trainers feel most prepared to engage with learners. Want to avoid taking on issues that are primarily administrative but don't address practical needs of the trainer community.
    -   Liz: With reference to the list of [issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues), what are the ones that stand out as priority or which we (collectively, individually) are most interested in taking on.
    -   Jon: Some consolidation of outstanding points or proposed processes in old issues could be useful.
    -   Liz: Could be useful to go through the issues and find/document relevant documentation. Make note in corresponding issue and close.
        -   Review/discussion of current [issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues)
-   Additional business
    -   Redaction check (standing item)
    -   Process check: Minutes approval requires 1 TLC member, not all to approve minutes?
        -   Will confirm
            -   Can be done via GitHub PR or through Slack
        -   We can also review the
            [rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md)
    -   Notetaker for next meeting: Annajiat
-   Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
    -   Finish blog post with bios (Liz and Jon) within the next couple
        of weeks (April 30).
    -   Review and add notes to issues that may be closed. By next
        meeting.
        -   Apply labels in issue: "trainer meeting" and "ready for
            archive"
        -   [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/50)
            Jon
        -   All - choose a couple of issues to resolve. Document new,
            related processes or other justification for resolving and
            archiving.
    -   Confirm process for approving minutes (Jon, by April 20)
-   Next meeting:
    -   May 10 1:00 AM UTC
