Trainers Leadership August 8, 2024

Attendance

Present: Nathaniel, Liz, Annajiat
Apologies: Jon, Sher!, Intekhab
Notetaker: Nathaniel

Agenda and notes:

1. Update on action items
  - Starting next month we can go back to previous meeting time/dates.
    - Tentatively confirmed
  - Liz will add to the issue re a rubric document.
    - On hold; Liz will follow up
  - TLC is working to take over part of responsibility for trainer meetings
    - In progress - Nathaniel and Jon led last meeting and went well
    - Liz will help with 2nd meeting 6 Sept; looking for another volunteeer for 1st meeting
  - Liz will dig out previous discussions about the TLC calendar (especially as it relates to scheduling trainer meetings), and assemble a draft calendar somewhere on the TLC repo
    - On hold; Liz will follow up
  - Board of Directors program committee meeting reports
    - Meeting is next week; Liz will send a report
  - Check on how teaching demos are recorded (for use in trainer renewal)
    - Data are recorded from trainer form submission (not AMY); Maneesha or Sher! will have access
2.  Core team update
  -   2 new trainer cohorts started this week (26 new trainers)!
  -   Instructor Training Scheduling for Q4 beginning this month
  -   Workshop surveys being updated
    -   Switching over to Python
    -   Will have the same url
    -   Will move faster (loading time)
    -   Notice coming next Monday
  -   Anacondas is that an issue. Mostly using Jupyter Notebook in the cloud (side issue for trainers but active discussion for instructors/maintainers)
  -   Instructor Meeting next week
  -   Beginning to plan Trainer Renewal and Instructor Status
  -   Ecology R lesson has been updated officially
3.  Current activities
  - Trainer’s meeting guide
    - Available documentation in writing is included in the [PR](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/299)
    - Jon will draft a process based on input from Core Team and experience from recent trainer meetings. Deadline 8/31.
  - [Automating trainer status renewal](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261)
    - Can Zoom or calendar data help automate some of the data collection here?
4.  Proposals and pull requests: not voted on by quorum - votes can be registered on Git (preferred) or Slack
    -   [Process to close outstanding issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/295)
    -   [Shorten wait time for minutes approval](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/294)
    -   [Consolidate two pages on becoming an instructor](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/292)
    -   [Pilot enhanced instructor training](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/286)
        -   Status update: Virginia Tech graduate school is supportive of Spring 2025 pilot with Nathaniel and Jesse Sadler as trainers
5.  Action items
    -   Liz send email to TLC about meeting leads for the ⅚ Sept Trainers meeting
    -   Everyone: review current proposals and comment per Martha's rules (like, can live with, no) by 1 day before September leadership meeting.
7.  Next meeting: 12/13 Sept?
  - Liz asked to move to 19/20 Sept; waiting confirmation from rest of TLC before moving
  - Tentatively cancelled backup meeting for August
