Trainers Leadership 2024-11-15

Attendance:
Present: Sher, Nathaniel, Jon, Liz, Annajiat
Apologies: Intekhab
Notetaker: Jon

## Agenda and notes

1.  Core team update
	1. Instructor Training things to cut 
		1. Sher: Good feedback from trainers meetings last week. Received a lot of info on things to cut. Bring back to TLC and see if the committee can start putting together and synthesizing the feedback into a document. Have talked about this at previous meetings, will find the notes and link here. Can the TLC take the lead on building this out?
        2. Liz: Was there any consensus around things to cut?
        3. Sher: Yes, a lot of things came up in both calls. One of the bigger things was the section on developing curriculum (How we operate). Not necessarily relevant to instructor training and getting ready to teach. And the maintainers (CLDT - collaborative lesson development training) can also review and make decisions about cuts.
        4. Nathaniel: Can take a look at the notes and collate and bring to the lesson maintainers in case there's anything that may need to be brought back to leadership in case cutting would be a problem. Some of the content is important. Many trainers have preferences for things they would never cut.
        5. Sher: This is a recommendation for trainers. Ideally the goal is to have a resource to refer to if/when cuts need to be made during an instructor training. But we would know that all the trainees receive a common baseline of things that everyone gets taught. If things have to get cut, here's the things to consider. 
        6. Liz: Can the IT maintainers take this on?
        7. Nathaniel: Yes, we can look at the existing notes from both times this was discussed and probably turn it into an issue on Git. Hopefully we can add some instructor notes from there.
        8. Annajiat: May wish to move the things to cut to an extra resources section as supplementary material.
    2.  Trainer Renewal Updates
	    1. Process
            1.  Run the query first to see who is active based on the required steps.  (Teach 1 IT, 2 demos, 4 meetings)
            2.  Send an email to everyone who has already completed the requirements - "congrats you have fulfilled the requirements and are an active Trainer for the next year"
            3.  For people who haven't fulfilled the requirements
	            1. Ask them if they want to do something to become active or go inactive. 
	            2. In order to become active - do the following by DEADLINE: 
		            1. If they haven't done meetings - send them the minutes repo. Have them provide insight into one of the topics that was discussed. 
		            2. If they haven't done teaching demos - ask them to sign up to host a teaching demo before they become active again. 
		            3. If they haven't taught - sign up at next quarterly teaching. 
		        3. After DEADLINE - we re-run query to see who is active and send them the congrats email.
		    4. If someone is still not active, we do the following: 
			    1. Set their community role in AMY as inactive
			    2. And other things? 
				    1. Send them an email 
                3. We will automatically assign them inactive if they do not meet the requirements, but as soon as they email us we with the updated criteria we will change the status effective immediately. 
        2. Discussion:
	        1. Sher: Looked at the documentation of what is required for renewal status. Sher will be meeting with Core Team to plan some co-working sessions around scheduling a renewal season so we can automate as much as possible but also so trainers will know what is expected by when. Right now, the requirements don't allow a lot of opportunity for automation. The thing that would make it easier to automate and cut down on meetings would be some way to identify who has met the requirements. Next step would be to reach out to those who haven't and find out if they want to stay active or go inactive. If they would like to fulfill requirements, they will have the option to do certain things. If they haven't attended meetings, send notes and provide some feedback. If no teaching demos hosted, host a teaching demo. If haven't taught, sign up during the next quarter. If a person doesn't respond to inquiry, their status will be set to inactive until they do the thing they were missing but it will be up to the trainer to let the Core Team know. So, this approach would allow automation and remove a lot of the heavy backend engagement with trainer renewals. 
	        2. Annajiat: Could we have an automatic prompt in the trainer portal so trainers can see that they need to complete certain actions? More automation in terms of prompts to the trainers so that they are always aware of current status and upcoming actions to take from AMY like system.
	        3. Sher: There is a review.
	        4. Liz: This may be something trainers would see when they log into AMY. But something that would always be available to trainers to see what their status is. Is this possible?
	        5. Sher: Possibly. It could take some time to make it happen, but hard to say how long it will take. Love this idea and will get it on the development team plan, but can't promise when it will get addressed. 
	        6. Liz: Good to develop a way to combine this info with info about eligibility for discounts.  When is renewal season?
	        7. Sher: \[missed notes here\]. But trying to merge or align with maintainers. 
	        8. Nathaniel: Our renewal season is spring. Past deadline this year was February and then we send out notices a couple weeks after. So, Feb-March.
	        9. Liz: That probably works with Australian things. School starts back the end of January. Most universities don't start until the beginning of March, though many are moving from a semester to a trimester model. But generally, Feb-March will probably work. Probably requires getting in touch with people in December. Because scheduling happens from the Carpentries perspective. If for example I didn't do my second training.
	        10. Sher: If trainers do their part, it counts. Even if that second training doesn't get scheduled. 
	        11. Liz: But I wouldn't be eligible to get the discount for my institution.
	        12. Annajiat: Is it all universities moving to trimester? Are we going to have any long-term impact in Carpentries workshops/trainings?
	        13. Liz: No, institutions choose differently. No real impact on Carpentries workshops in universities. 
	        14. Discussion of scheduling of trainer meetings as requirement. The scheduling is difficult. This is something that has typically been flexible, but it is understood to be a challenge. That is the rationale behind asking trainers to read the notes and provide feedback, but the meetings are important. 
	        15. Discussion of possibly encouraging and accepting participation in Slack as an alternative to attending meetings. Possibility of using bot/metric in Slack to record interaction and participation. 
    3. Trainer Meetings
	    1. Topic for December
		    1. Annajiat: Review of active trainer status trend vs potential growth trend for requirement of trainers.
			    1. Check data to see how we are meeting needs for instructor training with trainers we have?
			    2. Survey of member orgs who didn't review (renew?) to see if it is only budget issue or if we need to increase/highlight our value proposition
			    3. Discussion of whether the trainers have access to the info or are involved in the overall decision making process around renewal. Can we bring in the Core Team to shed some light on how these decisions are made?
			    4. Filter view for trainers based on country/continent/regions in the new website for [https://carpentries.org/trainers/](https://carpentries.org/trainers/). We do have region based slack channels but not a webview.
            2.  Liz: Year in review topic. What was the hardest thing year? What questions do you have for 2025?
	            1. Jon: Have a call with new Trainers to share TLC and introduce and let them know what it's about.
	            2. We will do this Dec 5. Need representation at both meetings. Sher will send a reminder via Slack.
	    2. 2025
		    1. January 23 use 2nd meeting or begin in February 6? 
			    1. Probably simpler to start in February. 
			    2. Feb 6 it is!
2.  Current activities
	1. Trainer's meeting guide: <https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201>
		1. Jon is still planning to write it when he can find the time. Will try to do it in the next couple of weeks, and if not able then will schedule a co-writing session. 
	2. Automating trainer status renewal: [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261)
		1. Ok to close (moot due to changes).
3.  Proposals and pull requests
	1. Process to close outstanding issues: [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/295](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/295)
		1. 3 x yes Dormancy tag
	2. Shorten wait time for minutes approval: <https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/294>
		1. 3 x yes
	3. Consolidate two pages on becoming an instructor: <https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/292>
		1. Moot because website upgrade.
		2. (ok to close)
	4. Pilot enhanced instructor training: <https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/286>
		1. 4 x likes: good to go!
		2. Submitted to grad school and approved! ([syllabus](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gXeb5wn4E3OUc5am_F0n8eYjAVGfqDOQMdxevM8ZypI/edit?usp=sharing) | [schedule]{(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wzcduIDgjvDCHeDUUXjCVNJtHK6U_ziBcycY6TKhQlM/edit?usp=sharing)) (feedback welcome)
4.  Additional business
	1. Redaction check (standing item)
	2. Confirm the next back up meeting  - not needed this month
5.  Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
	1. Liz and Jon doing the TLC info for the December trainer meeting.
	2. Liz will reach out about a blog post re the enhanced instructor training.
	3. Nathaniel will bring the list of suggestions about Instructor Training things to cut to the maintainers.
6.  Next meeting: [13 December 1:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20241213T01)
