Trainers Leadership 2024-03-14

Present: Sher, Nathaniel, Jon, Intekhab, Liz, Annajiat

Apologies:

Guest (Chair): Mark Crowe

Minutes: Liz, Jon

### Agenda
---------------------------------

-   Onboarding and planning (with Mark Crowe, outgoing Chair)
    -   [Roles of trainer leadership](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/governance.md)
    -   [Meeting rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md) - quick discussion of
    -   Review Governance and Powers and Responsibilities documents. Commit to attending and contributing to meetings (live and asynchronous).
    -   Martha's rules for meeting proposals
    -   Suggest reading [2021-03-29-leadership-minutes.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/leadership_minutes/2021/2021-03-29-leadership-minutes.md) and [2021-04-17-leadership-minutes.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/leadership_minutes/2021/2021-04-17-leadership-minutes.md) for some of the committee operating processes
    -   Produce introductory blog - see [2022-03-13-Trainers-Leadership-2023.md](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/blob/77c6e9d570229d08987a1dae2b21b87c89944457/_posts/2023/03/2022-03-13-Trainers-Leadership-2023.md) for 2023 version
    -   Election of officers (Chair and Secretary)
	    - Chair: Liz
	    - Jon: Secretary
    -   Meeting times
        -   01:00 UTC proposed
        -   Second Friday UTC as primary; Fourth as backup
    - Discussion
	- Liz: What is unfinished? What would you never do again? What would you warn us about?
	- Mark: Working out how to manage overlap processes for TLC membership. Make sure there's an issue that needs solving before you spend time on coming up with a solution for it!
	- Nathaniel: Other recent or ongoing things included in role as CAC for instructor training:
	    -   Learner profiles for instructor training.
	    -   Fundamental errors section - how to manage examples that are loaded
	- Mark: Also happy to answer further questions after this meeting?

-   Core team update (Sher)

    -   Trainer Response to Quarterly Trainings <link redacted>
        -   Low turnout for 2nd quarter training call (reduced \# of responses and reduced \# available)
            -   Comparison with previous 4 quarters provided
            -   All core team members needed to support a full training calendar
            -   Difficult season for trainers to sign up due to layoffs
            -   Make sure trainers still feel supported; as active trainers their support is still needed through remaining active
                -   Key to highlight in intro blogs; training is vital, encourage the trainers
            -   Survey pending to gauge capacity
        -   Annajiat: Are there additional or special training options to motivate trainers?
        -   Mark: Can we schedule workshops and ask for people to sign up? Could be easier to schedule with advance notice and time to coordinate around known dates.
        -   Liz: To help with motivation following the layoffs, are there ways to show support similar to for example the lunch offer for instructors teaching online workshops.
        -   Nathaniel: For many of us, time and planning are key barriers. Mark's idea could be helpful if we can find a way to do it. Need to determine what it is about scheduling that is making it hard? What has attendance been like at trainer meetings?
        -   Jon: I don't worry too much about availability months ahead of time due to maybe being able to reschedule if a proposed training time presents a conflict later.
        -   Nathaniel: There's a risk many of our trainers are also being pulled to do more in other ways as core team is reduced (spoken as someone who works closely with maintainers)
        -   Sher!: Before the layoffs the Core Team didn't have designated time to give to trainings and other activities. Now they do have designated time.
    -   Communications with Trainees
        -   Caught up on info requests to trainees about checkout status.
        -   Relate to trainees to check in with Core Team for updates on status
        -   Nathaniel: Amy is presenting some challenges. If Amy says a step is complete, can that be incorrect?
            -   Sher!: Most likely the other way around.
        -   Annajiat: Request a report on who has not completed the checkout process.
        -   Liz: May need to work with member orgs on that. Has heard that someone completed the whole checkout process in 17 days.
        -   Nathaniel: It would be great to have that information going regularly in some automated way to the member org contacts anyway. I have a hard time getting around to updating my new instructors' status in my records.
        -   Mark: Not everybody who takes the training intends to complete the checkout process.
            -   Sher!: Looking at ways to capture that info.
        -   Annajiat: has more flow on effects too - that certification means they're more visible to workshop opportunities
        -   Jon: perhaps a workflow should go more through the community liaisons rather than an additional TLC or Core Team load.

-   [Proposals/Issues](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls)
    -   Outstanding
        -   13+ issues to consider whether to implement, hold, or close
        -   Automating trainer renewal didn't get wrapped up last year.
    -   New (none)
    -   Request to submit
        -   updates to [meeting rules](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/policy/leader_meeting_rules.md)
            and
            [readme](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/README.md)  with new leadership, officers, etc

-   Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
    -   All to contribute to the introductory blog that Mark will
        circulate
        -   Deadline by end of 3rd week of March
    -   A volunteer to update the reporting script that Sarah started
    -   Leadership handovers (Mark/Liz and Nathaniel/Jon)
    -   Updates to meeting rules and readme (Jon or Nathaniel)
    -   Before the next meeting please read through all existing
        proposals, propose new issues as per Martha's rules
-   Next meeting:
    -   Friday 12 April 1:00AM UTC
        -   Need to check if calendar invite is setup/updated
