Trainers Leadership September 2024-09-27

Attendance:
Present: Jon, Liz
Apologies: Sher
Notetaker: Jon

## Agenda and notes

1.  Core team update
	1. Updating the Carpentries Website/Handbook and we are developing 
		1. [Instructor Training FAQ](https://carp-new-website.netlify.app/instructor-training/instructor-training-faq/)
			1. Please feel free to add additional questions. WIT will begin to populate the answers and group the questions
		 2.  [Trainers Leadership Handbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XAZKSM9xVXU1PB8EokfmZWKB8r8-_0KqilM7VIb2A48/edit)
			 1. Would like for the committee to fill in as much information as possible. 
	2. Several months of Trainers Meeting Notes need approval in the [repo](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/tree/main/minutes) 
		1. Who should I assign to review? 
			1. Trainers Leadership Committee
		2. Jon and Liz reviewed pull requests and approved/merged any that were a month or more old.
			1. June trainer meeting minutes have a pending question to resolve.
		3. October Trainers Meeting
			1. Introduce the new trainees! 
2.  Additional business
	1. Redaction check
	2. Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
		1. Jon will reach out via Slack and email to encourage TLC to vote on outstanding proposals. 
		2. Jon can poll the TLC about setting a new meeting time. Will reach out via Slack and email.
3.  Next meeting: October 11 00:00 UTC
	1. Jon has a likely conflict.
