Trainers Leadership July 2024-07-11

Attendance
Present: Jon, Liz, Nathaniel
Apologies: Sher!, Intekhab, Annajiat
Notetaker: Jon

## Agenda and notes

1.  Update on action items
    a.  Nathaniel will look up info from last year's trainer active status renewal process. By the next meeting.
	    1. From 5 Dec 2023 notes on renewal:
		    1.  Most valuable alternative activities included Trainers Leadership and IT curriculum maintenance.
		    2.  4 demos could substitute for 1 Instructor Training.
		    3. 2 Instructor Training could cover other requirements (certainly all demos).
		    4. Otherwise, it will be hard to get away from a case-by-case review if we want to keep the "alternative activities" option for sustaining active status.
		    5. Number of people who have done demos or workshops that weren't included in their summary was alarmingly high. Does this reflect a problem?
			    1. Demos are recorded in AMY when host submits results (maybe? Nathaniel will check with Core Team).
		2. Liz: Good to have this information available as a rubric.
			1. Renewal process formally lives at https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#certification-renewal-process
		3. Nathaniel: Yes, if we want to formalize these criteria as policy.
		4. Liz: If info is available from case by case reviews, could be useful to compile into a list for future reference.
		5. Nathaniel: Some of this info is available. Keeping in mind that we want to keep the emphasis on supporting trainer activities. See last quarter 2023 TLC minutes for relevant discussion.
    b.  Initiate development of a Trainer's Meeting Guide (Jon), by trainers' meeting June 20/21
	    1.  Via document in appropriate directory of repository (most likely policy)
		    1. Done - in "policy" ( went through existing documentation looking for training meeting - lots of questions came up). Includes current info from etherpad
2.  Current activities
    a.  Trainers meeting guide [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/201)
	    1. [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/299](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/299)
	    2. Lots of things that the Core Team are doing re trainer meetings are actually TLC responsibilities.
	    3. Jon talked through the PR - highlighting:
		    1. TLC can set the schedule.
		    2. TLC could undertake call for topics.
		    3. Identifying meeting leads (also TLC!).
		    4. Previous process used last in 2023, by maintainer lead and director training.
		    5. No documentation about how it was actually done, so could start from scratch or poll the community. Before starting up general questions on slack, what gaps can Jon fill?
		4. Nathaniel: A challenge in terms of setting topics is the difference in time zones - difficult to schedule two meetings in a day that trainers can attend but which one person could attend both meetings. One option is to coordinate topics differently between meeting 1 and meeting 2.
        5. Liz: Participation in meetings increased once calendar invites were sent out. We could also make sure detailed notes are available for trainers to access afterwards if they are not able to attend a meeting. TLC can provide the scaffolding that encourages/enables people to follow up. Timing is always going to be a challenge - we can encourage trainers to coordinate info sharing beyond the meetings into regional discussions, etc. Scheduling of trainer meetings and sorting out the agenda is likely something the Core team is doing right now to keep momentum and connection. Important for us to step up.
        6. Jon: Maybe because Core Team were so involved they took on a lot of those (TLC) roles over time. Did the TLC do a lot of these activities?
        7. Nathaniel: Mostly TLC provided support sounding board and assistance - check in and feedback for core team activities.
        8. Jon: Developing the guide can be our first step towards encouraging broader participation in the trainer meetings.
        9. Liz: Want to develop and nurture trainer ownership of the community. Also help the community understand what our role is.
        10. Nathaniel: We could start reaching out to people now about ideas and opportunities for leading trainer meetings in Q4. Note that some proposed topics may have people's names on them already.
	        1.  Current proposals at [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4)
    b.  Automating trainer status renewal  [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/261)
	    1.  See above discussion of action item.
3.  Proposals and pull requests
    a.  Process to close outstanding issues [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/295](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/295)
    b.  Shorten wait time for minutes approval [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/294](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/294)
    c.  Consolidate two pages on becoming an instructor .[https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/292](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/292)
    d.  Pilot enhanced instructor training [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/286](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/286)
4.  Additional business
    a.  Small questions (not previously on agenda)
	    1. Where are instructor renewal requirements formally outlined in IT or governance docs? (noting that they have not been strictly enforced)
            1.  Nathaniel: Relevant to a question on Slack. Not necessarily a trainer issue, but it's useful to know where the info is.
         2. Did we ever get a general TLC calendar put together for regular annual rhythm of ongoing things (elections, scheduling trainer meetings, renewals, etc)?
	         1.  Nathaniel: i think we talked about this last year but I don't know if it exists but it would probably be good to have in our repo as a resource especially for the TLC chair.
            2.  Liz: There is a list of dates that may be out of date in terms of scheduling annual processes. There is a lot of infrastructure ready to be used, but may need updating.
            3.  Nathaniel: We haven't sorted out which things are fixed or more related to policy, as opposed to those which are routine actions.
    b.  Report to the Board of Directors
        1. Liz: Have made contact with the chair of the program committee of the BoD. Documentation indicates we report to EC every six months, but the EC doesn't exist anymore. So will submit an issue to update the documentation to reference the program committee and start compiling the report.
    c.  Redaction check (standing item)
    d.  Confirm the next back up meeting
5.  Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
    a.  Starting next month we can go back to previous meeting time/dates.
	    1. Liz will send an appointment confirmation.
    b.  Nathaniel with check re how teaching demos are recorded in AMY or elsewhere.
    c.  Liz will add an issue to GitHub re a rubric document.
    d.  Jon will reach out to Core team for info about how meetings are planned and facilitated, what can we prioritize in terms of a transition to TLC taking over intended roles and responsibilities.
    e.  Liz will dig out previous discussions about the TLC calendar (especially as it relates to scheduling trainer meetings), and assemble a draft calendar somewhere on the TLC repo.
    f.  Liz will confirm program committee meeting dates and let TLC know if backup is necessary. 
6.  Next meeting: 8/9 August, 2024 primary meeting (may need backup 25/26 July if program committee meets early in August).
