Trainers Leadership 2025-01-31

Attendance
Present: Sher, Jon, Liz, Annajiat, Nathaniel, Intekhab
Notetaker: Jon
### Agenda and notes

1. Core team update
	1. Trainer Renewal
		1. Sher: We talked about the plan before the break. Aligning renewals to line up with  Q2 training events. Based on current criteria, only 7 people would go through. Several reasons. Last year was a transition year, so this year going to auto-renew anyone who taught a training or a demo. This increases count to 40-50 instructors who will renew. Will communicate with trainers, per below: 
			1. **Instructor Training Meetings:** If you missed four or more meetings, please review the 2024 Instructor Training meeting minutes and share your feedback, questions, or concerns at instructor.training@carpentries.org. 
				1. We encourage you to focus on the discussion topics. You do not need to review every meeting: simply select one or two to review and provide feedback.
			2. **Teaching Demos:** If you have not completed two teaching demos, you will have an opportunity to do so in the upcoming quarter. Expect an email the week of February 10, 2025, with sign-up instructions.
			3. **Instructor Training Events:** If you have not taught an Instructor Training event, you will have a chance to sign up for one in the upcoming quarter. The week of February 10, 2025, you will receive an email requesting your availability for training sessions between April and June 2025.
		2. The email will include detailed instructions on how to sign up. To maintain your active status, you must provide your availability. If you are not selected for that quarter, your obligation will be considered fulfilled. However, we encourage you to sign up again for the following quarter. 
		3. Need trainers to respond to the form for training signup. Emphasize need for this in upcoming communications. 
		4. Jon: What has the response rate been in the past, in terms of trainers completing the requested steps to retain active status.
		5. Discussion about availability of data to answer this question, changes in the community over the past year. Current change to requirement is reasonable based on disruption to the community.
		6. Liz: How does this affect TLC elections? 
		7. Sher: If a trainer is active, they are eligible for election.
		8. Nathaniel: It looked like the form response rate was still pretty good, I like your response Sher.
		9. Annajiat: Q re checking information that goes out to the trainer community
	2. Instructor Trainer Website
		1. Trainers no longer need to create training website. 
		2. Core Team put together General page
		3. Sher: Note the general page doesn't include survey links, so these will be included in the trainers and trainees 1 week email. Working out a way to send trainees a way to fill out the post-survey form. Otherwise, everything trainees need to know is on the general page.
	3.  Trainers Meeting 
		1. Topic for next week?
			1. Liz: Need to have some info about TLC elections. But can have additional focus. Probably checking in with the trainer community, how everyone is feeling. Lots going on in the world. So how is everyone feeling and what can we do to support?
			2. Annajiat: Change to policies around DEI in the US, how does it affect Carpentries abilities to get grants or our operations? 
			3. Sher: As long as the work isn't specifically tied to DEI, we're okay. Working on several grants right now, and none are specific in terms of DEI. But looking at goals and plans, will pivot as needed.
			4. Annajiat: Do we need to change any approach in trainer/instructor training events?
			5. Sher: Training is not DEI, is focused on teaching the pedagogy to anyone.
2. Current activities
	1. Liz will submit a PR to add a brief statement about the TLC to the Handbook.
		1. Done, PR accepted.
	2. Jon will address changes and comments to the meeting guide PR. Deadline: January TLC meeting.
		1. Not done - will try and get to it by 2/14 and then will schedule time to co-write or other approach.
	3. Sher to review the Trainers meeting guide.
		1. Pending
3. Proposals and pull requests
	1. Discussion of current PRs, including adding the link to schedule of trainings to the handbook.
		1. Annajiat: We previously relied on the alt text of images. Having descriptions of the images in the paragraphs is increasingly considered helpful. Do all of our instructor and trainer materials have helpful descriptions or have initiative going on?
		2. Nathaniel: Yes but not consistently. There's a mix of captions and alt-text. Either text should be captured by screen readers, and the priority is to have the alt text or a caption and instructor training is in good shape (other than the possibility of making more consistent).
		3. Discussion of engaging the community to address this, Annajiat will lead. 
		4. Nathaniel: Still waiting for a solution for dark mode compatibility with vector images. Some of these don't have backgrounds, and becomes difficult to see in dark mode. Someone in the community is working on a fix.
4.  Additional business
	1. TLC elections: Discussion of continuity, schedule. We are elected to a one year term, with a 3 year term limit. But since we're already off schedule, unclear how to proceed. In addition to the scheduling, we need to administer the elections. Need to determine scheduling, call for nominations, outreach to community, regional considerations. Who has access to the Google form?
	2. Update on progress of for-credit instructor training course at Virginia Tech. Discussion of supply and demand, impact on membership and trainer renewal, and funding or admin concerns about how seats are used.
	3. Redaction check (standing item).
	4. Confirm the next back up meeting 
5. . Action items (with responsible person and timeline)
	1. Liz will connect with Core Team about TLC nomination schedule and logistics.
	2. All:  You are welcome to share any resources with Annajiat. He is working for an upcoming digital scholarship lab grant for a local library. It encompasses teaching, learning, research and data skills, etc.
6. Next meeting:
	1. Feb 13/14 01:30 UTC
