# Trainer Meeting, 5 June 2025, UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250605T14

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Jesse pre



Others attending:   

     Scott Peterson he/him University at Buffalo

     Zac Painter, Princeton University, USA

    Amanda Kis, University of Oklahoma

    Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries

    Halle Burns, she/her, Princeton University, USA

    Samantha Ahern, University College London, UK

    Jordan Pedersen (she/her), University of Guelph, Canada

    Jesse Sadler (he/him) Virginia Tech, USA

     Vasileios Lenis, University of Birmingham, UK

     Mike Trizna (he/him), Smithsonian Institution, USA

     Kari L. Jordan (she/her/ella), The Carpentries, USA

     Danielle Sieh (she/her/s), The Carpentries, USA

     Sue McClatchy (she/her), The Jackson Laboratory USA

    Maneesha Sane (any pronouns), The Carpentries 

    Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries

      Erin Becker (she/her), The Carpentries

     Sarah Clarke (she/her) ACENET

     Dimitrios Theodorakis (he/him), Met Office

     Cera Fisher (she/her), Velsera

     SherAaron (she/her) , The Carpentries

     Oscar Masinyana (he/they), The Carpentries  

    Olexandr Konovalov (he/him), University of St Andrews, UK (joined at 14:45 - exam boards at work, sorry!)


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    name (pronouns) / location/ affiliation/ favorite pet name

    Pre/post discussion

    Jesse teaching one in 2 weeks. First teachin with Jon W. 

    Plan for a technical difficulty. 

    Enjoy the experience. See where the discussions take you! 

    Announcements

    Instructor Trainers needed to pilot Pretix

    The Technology Team would like for the Instructor Trainers to help pilot a new software called Pretix. We need community feedback to further the develop the software to fit the needs of the Community

    Maneesha: Carpentries manages registration thru a variety of platforms - etherpad, eventbrite, etc. Platforms all have pros and cons and don't play well with each other. Manual processes. Working on migrating all event management to Pretix. 

    Samantha (chat): We would be happy to chat about our experiences as we've been using Pretix for quite awhile now. 

    Maneesha: We are planning to move ALL event registration to Pretix. Big events, and smaller events. Right now tracking for Instructor Trainer meeting attendance is tracked manually from etherpad. (important to track for people maintaining active status!). 

    Core team has been beta testing internally; now we would like to do some external testing. Would like to start with this group first. Piloting having instructor trainers sign up for THIS meeting using Pretix. 

    [Screen share and hands-on demo]

    We'll use Pretix July and August

    Please give feedback on how it's working for you

    What do you think of the interface?

    Did you get the information you needed?

    Suggestions?

    Maneesha will send an email to the Trainers with information

    Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee has a vacancy

    Cera, Amanda and Jesse has joined Jon W as the ITLC. Encourage people to self nominate. The team is currently 100% US based. Would like to encourage someone from non-US to help with doing the work.

    1 meeting per month, help support trainers meeting, maybe some asynchronous work on projects such as what to cut guide from instructor training. (totalling roughly 5 hours a month)

    Now Available: The Carpentries’ 2024 Annual Report. https://carpentries.org/reports/annual-reports/2024AnnualReport.pdf 

    We are pleased to announce the release of The Carpentries’ 2024 Annual Report! Designed as a high-level overview of our work, the report offers a succinct introduction to our organisation for potential funders, new members, and others joining our community. It also serves as a valuable resource for long-time community members, highlighting our achievements over the past year and outlining our goals for the year ahead.

    Topic of the month

    Teaching demos - what do you do when only one person signs up? (And other demo questions!)

    Samantha: Really important to not just get feedback but also for them to GIVE feedback. Would not want to do a demo with fewer than three, because they REALLY need to practice giving constructive feedback to others. 

    Erin: Three is an ideal minimum, but maybe don't necessarily cancel because the person who scheduled may have prepared extensively

    Toby: Someone else said that she does a demome herself when she only has one person in a demo session. Toby tried that, it went alright; Toby felt he had to give a lesson he wasn't really familiar with, but he REALLY struggled and was paralyzed with choice. More than one person signed up but only one person came, so wasn't really prepared for this. Trainee was more concerned about giving the constructive feedback than they might have been with another trainee -- status/perceived power differential -- Toby encouraged, but that may have been difficult.  

    Sher: I understand that we want to give feedback -- on the back end, on the administrative side, there have been times when people have had one canceled, gone to another one, and then had that one canceled again. As a trainer, you may not know this is their second or third time signing up. Plus one on rec to give a demo yourself if you have this happen to you. Removing the barrier is really important. One other administrative thing: if you do HAVE to cancel, for any reason, when you give the cancellation, if you can share the time and date, not JUST tell Sher you have to cancel your upcoming training. 

    Jordan: Agree with everything said so far - new to add - if you have a single person signed up, reach out to them and let them know - ask THEM what they want, so you know what they need

    Erin: As a topic for future consideration: how frequent is it to have only one person sign up? Do we need to reduce the frequency of events? 

    Mike (chat): Never even been close to having just 1 sign up!

    Toby: If there are trainers that want to make a few 5 minute long teaching demos for YouTube, that could give people an opportunity to give feedback on multiple lessons/MOs

    Jordan: I like this idea, but it is a different experience than giving feedback to someone that you're talking to personally. 

    Sam: We did do videos before

    (general interest in having a library of short demos, making some more of these) 

    Cera: Want to make sure we have something as a backup so that people can give feedback.. 

    Olexandr: a demo is an important opportunity not only to give feedback, but also a chance to see how others are doing demos -- they'll be deprived of that, too, of it's 1:1 demo. But people may also REALLY want to get the certificate completed by certain deadlibe! So check with them - reschedule if they don't mind, but otherwise try to find other solutuion - let them know what other demos are coming up that might have more people already signed up which they can join, or maybe invite people from later demos to join an earlier one.

    Sher: to what Jordan mentioned - giving them the option - I don't want to put a lot of administrative burden on the Trainers who are already taking their time to conduct the demo. This could end up being a lot of back and forth, coordinating with them. The admin load can be heavy. Core Team may be able to support this. Maybe Pretix will be able to help with this down the line. 

    Scott: If someone doesn't get the full experience in a 5 minute demo that we want them to do, it's probably going to be okay. They'll get the rest of this experience further down the line. Teaching demos are a great thing to do, but it's really the starting point, more things are important in staying in the carpentries. 

    Amanda: In my demo, I don't think I was thinking about the feedback at all, it was just pure panic. 


Final thoughts: Do we want to have something codified, do we want to produce a document that says "here are the options" -- let's take this to the slack, maybe do a poll. Will have this discussion again at next Trainers meeting today - ITLC will then take this up. +1


#  Trainer Meeting 5 June 2025, UTC 23:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250605T23

Training discussion (pre and post):

    Sara King post



Others attending:   

      

     Amanda Kis, she/her, University of Oklahoma, akkis@ou.edu

     Cera Fisher, she/her, Velsera, cera.fisher@velsera.com

     Sara King, she/her, AARNet, sara.king@aarnet.edu.au

     Jeff Oliver, he/him, University of Arizona, jcoliver@arizona.edu

     Murray Cadzow he/him, University of Otago, murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz

     Maneesha Sane, any pronouns, The Carpentries, maneesha@carpentries.org

     Kaija Gahm she/her, UCLA, kgahm@ucla.edu

    Jon Wheeler, he/him, University of New Mexico, jwheel01@unm.edu

     SherAaron, The Carpentries 

     

     

      

     

     

      


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 

Agenda:

    Introductions

    Icebreaker: What is your go-to snack right now?

    Pre/post discussion

    Sara King: Two things that came to mind - a person was quite passionate about the Code of Conduct - wanted more and more, a regular monitoring of every interaction - directed him towards joining the COC committee

    Additionally - had a person who may have fallen asleep, unsure about what happened, a bit worried, have not heard back

    Sher: That was the correct protocol - to let the Core Team know in a situation like this where someone seems to be in distress over Zoom - important thing to think about

    Maneesha: Was this someone affiliated with a member site? Could we have reached out to the member site for an emergency contact? 

    Sara: Think she was in Arizona, but unsure what campus - thinkign about it afterwards, maybe that University would have an after-hours phone number; perhaps they would have some protocol

    Sher (chat): [reaching out to the Univerity] is something we as the Core Team could do 


    Announcements

    Instructor Trainers needed to pilot Pretix

    The Technology Team would like for the Instructor Trainers o help pilot a new software called Pretix. We need community feedback to further the develop the software to fit the needs of the Community

    Maneesha: New tool we're using for event management - registration

    In early stages of testing this platform Pretix, we have been testing in the Core Team and are now looking to expand testing. Goal is to have Pretix replace the several different platforms we have been using for registration. Right now, we track Instructor Trainer attendance via etherpad - manual process. So looking to have a more integrated system. 

    [screen share - hands on demo!]

    https://pretix.carpentries.org/instructor-trainer-meetings/instructor-trainer-meetings/

    Piloting this as a way to sign up for our regular Trainer Monthly Meetings

    Ultimately this will allow us to have better management and tracking of who is coming, and will help registrants have events properly registered on their calendars

    Kaija: curious - does it integrate with calendar applications? (google cal etc)

    Maneesha: Yes, it sends an ICS file to you when it sends you an email

    Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee has a vacancy

    Now Available: The Carpentries’ 2024 Annual Report. https://carpentries.org/reports/annual-reports/2024AnnualReport.pdf 

    We are pleased to announce the release of The Carpentries’ 2024 Annual Report! Designed as a high-level overview of our work, the report offers a succinct introduction to our organisation for potential funders, new members, and others joining our community. It also serves as a valuable resource for long-time community members, highlighting our achievements over the past year and outlining our goals for the year ahead.

    Community Engagement team has made the annual report live! 


    Topic of the month

    Teaching demos - what do you do when only one person signs up? (And other demo questions!)

    Jon: Thinking of this topic for discussion - this is something that has come up a few times recently; there are diverging opinions about what to do or how to handle it. Some people cancel if there is only one person. Teaching demos *used* to fill up fast. I try to go ahead and respect the person's time. Others have said that one of the key values is the chance for feedback; there is much less of that if the person is there by themselves. 

    Kaija: Would distinguish between 1 person signing up vs 1 person showing up - perhaps cancel if only 1 person had signed up, but if only 1 person shows up, it would be very upsetting if I arrived and then was canceled on. Person leading the teaching demo could have a lesson plan in their back pocket that they would be willing to demo. Could also offer at the beginning to cancel or hold the session, whichever they prefer. 

    Jon: Time zones can be extremely challenging. Especially if someone had had trouble finding a slot

    Sher: Trainers may not know if someone has already been canceled on once -- this could be the second time or even third. Also: the anxiety of preparing and getting ready to do the demo, and then having to sign up again for another date. Love the idea of still offering that training by the Trainer having a demo that they can present. 

    Amanda: An issue with canceling - when do you cancel? Three days in advance? Two days in advance? email may not reach them in time - what if they show up, this looks bad, makes Carpentries look disorganized

    Sher: Yes - I usually see trainers cancel within one or two days 

    Cera: Supply exceeding demand?

    Jeff: Instructor training a couple of weeks ago got canceled due to low enrollment. 

    Jeff: I would be very disinclined to cancel. It's hard enough to sign up. I would go ahead and hold it. Give them the option if they want, but a lot of people would like to just get it over with. But this also may be a good "Dealer's Choice" - Trainers Discretion 

    Cera: This isn't the last time they will have the chance for feedback

    Kaija: Teaching demo is very short, there's a limit to how much feedback somebody can really get/give in those demos - maybe we can talk about ways to continue building in feedback when we're doing teaching 

    Sher: Earlier conversation about supply/demand will be addressed by looking at some of the stats in the last few months 

    Sher: Also! More structured/formalized feedback is coming soon from the Core Team - developing a survey that we ask hosts and instructors to provide feedback regularly at the end of an Instructor Training. We want to make sure that we provide the oppt to get/give feedback. 

    Amanda: Sometimes it is hard to come by those opportunities to get feedback - what if this was a Skill Up session - "Sign up to give another 5 minute Teaching Demo" 
