# Trainer Meeting

## Meeting 1

Thursday, October 4, 2018 UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time:https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20181004T14

### Others attending:
* Paula Andrea Martinez
* Kari L. Jordan
* Christina Koch
* Fotis Psomopoulos
* Mark Laufersweiler 
* Alexander Konovalov
* Gerg Wislon
* Sher!


### Discussion

Please sign up below to debrief from a past training or ask questions about one upcoming

Workshops that aren't official "Carpentries" instructor trainings, but cover the same material
* Greg: 
	- teaching a one-day workshop for librarians in workshop (not for Carpentries specifically, more general tech skills)
	- LOTS of interest, variety of people
* Amy: 
	- doing instructor training on campus as part of membership; advertised to librarians (non science/engineering librarians)
	- lots of interest in teaching training (they do hands-on workshops)
* Mark:
	- Has offered training to people that he doesn't expect to become Carpentries instructors, offered as professional development

Follow-up questions
    - how to adapt the curriculum for a day
    - how to tweak it for a non-Carpentries audience
See Greg's notes below!

Amy doing upcoming training (Oct 22-23)
    - Needs someone who can Zoom in on Oct 22
    - email trainers list, Maneesha

### Announcements

- Open Instructor Training application review: 1) we need reviewers for one more bulk application review, and 2) we'd like to have a team of reviewers to score a handful of applications every 2 weeks. We now have automated scoring for most categories in AMY (yay!) so this will mainly mean reading free-response questions, maybe 2-3 minutes per application. Contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org) if interested!
- Workshop administration changes: You may notice some behind-the-scenes changes in how we are administering online trainings in the coming month or so. On your end, this will mainly mean that you get fewer redundant emails from Karen and Sher! It will also eventually mean that almost all online trainings will include some Open trainees, and that learners from member institutions may be scattered among trainings rather than all attending at once. More info as things develop!
- Karen and Christina are working on a process where we would have a "development" version of the lessons which incorporate larger PRs, to be merged into the authoritative Carpentries lessons at pre-announced times.  As we iron this out, we'll present more details.
    
### Topic of the Month: Curriculum curriculum curriculum!
 
https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues 

If you’d like to talk to Karen (@karenword) or Christina (@ChristinaLK) directly, we’re on the slack channel. 

1. Instructions:
1.Look for an issue labeled “type:discussion”
1.Contribute to the discussion! (+1 included)

OR

1. Look at the issues identified by the “pr-requested” label. All of these issues should be ready for a pull request submission.
1. Identify an issue you’d like to work on.
1. Comment on the issue to let others know that you are working on it.

OR

1. If you don’t see an issue you’d like to work on…
1. Review the curriculum
1. Think about ways it could be better
1. File an issue

Interest/activity level on the second day:
- For Kari, it's always been very active (lots of active learning, 
- Last half of day (operations, checkout) less interesting, more tired
- Always engaged before lunch
- Make end of 2nd day more active -- do part of it in training?
- People like workshop website building, don't have questions about Carpentries generally
- Already have some worksheet based activities to avoid talking at people all afternoon
- ending with teaching practice

Worksheets for the second day are here:
- http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/20-carpentries/index.html , for the exercise "Participating in the Carpentries – What’s Your Role?" 
- http://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/22-practices/index.html , for the exercise "Organize Your Knowledge"
For Christina + Karen to discuss later: how to flag "high priority" issues (GH sorts by time, which is not ideal) and then communicate that to trainers.  

One Day for Librarians
* Session 1
	* Novice vs. competent
	* Mental models
	* Formative assessment
	* Exercise: create an MCQ 
* Session 2
	* Critique the 3-minute video of Greg teaching badly (which needs to be re-recorded - the audio is pretty poor)
	* Recording teaching in groups of 3
	* Collect points to make a rubric to use in the second recorded teaching exercise in the afternoon
* Session 3
	* Competent vs. expert
	* 7 +/- 2
	* Concept maps
	* Exercise: draw a concept map
	* Up and down sticky notes as exit tickets (I review over lunch)
* Lunch (usually around 12:30)
* Session 4
	* Motivation and demotivation
	* Inclusivity and accessibility in the context of motivation
	* Exercise: "Who Decides?" from http://teachtogether.tech/en/motivation/
* Session 5
	* Overview of some good in-class teaching practices (sticky notes!)
	* Second recorded teaching session
* Session 6
	* Review of learning strategies (https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-017-0087-y)
	* The idea of a teaching commons (collaborative lesson development)
	* One up, one down
* End (usually around 17:00)

## Meeting 2

UTC 22:00 (Karen) FRIDAY AUS/NZ

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20181004T22

### Others attending:
* Karen Word
* Jonah Duckles
