# Meet The Nominees for the 2025 Trainers Leadership

## Amanda Kis
### Briefly, summarize your history with The Carpentries and/or Carpentries-related activities.	
After attending Carpentries workshops hosted by my institution's library for years, I began helping with them in 2022. In 2023, I became a certified Instructor, and in 2024, I became a certified Instructor Trainer. I co-instruct and help with several self-organized and centrally-organized workshops each year, and I co-instructed my first Instructor Training in February 2025. I also became co-lead of the Midwest Carpentries Community at the start of 2025.
### Have you served on the Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee previously? (Including before it was "official")	
No
### What interests you about serving on the Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee?	
Learning about pedagogy through The Carpentries and regularly revisiting and applying my understanding of what I've learned through co-instructing workshops and an Instructor Training and hosting a teaching demonstration have been such wonderful opportunities for professional development that help me better teach students in my classrooms. Serving on the Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee will give me a different type of opportunity to deepen my understanding of pedagogy by evaluating the Instructor Trainer Training Program. I also am interested in evaluating the process by which Instructor Trainers maintain or renew active status and seeing if there are aspects of the process that could be changed to better serve the community of Trainers. (In a small way, I'm also interested in having opportunity to get better at using GitHub collaboratively. I don't have to use it for my job, and it still is a bit intimidating to me to think about handling pull requests, issues, merge conflicts, etc. But I'll learn it better if I'm forced to use it!)
### What would you bring to this role that may be valuable for the Committee and/or the community?	
As a new Instructor Trainer, I can bring up questions and concerns that other new or aspiring Instructor Trainers might have, and I can relay my perspective on challenges that accompany completing Instructor Trainer Training and instructing Instructor Training and holding teaching demonstrations for the first time.
### In the coming year, this panel will address many issues. These include but are not limited to: designing support systems for the Instructor Trainer community engagement, evaluating changes to the Instructor Training curriculum, and advising The Carpentries Core Team on policy and support structures.  This Committee addresses issues and uses structured decision-making processes that rely on GitHub, emails, and meetings. Is there an issue that you are particularly motivated to engage with as a member of the Committee? Use this space to share what interests you about the issue.
As a new Instructor Trainer, I have felt some anxiety about being able to fulfill all of the expectations for Active Instructor Trainers. Perhaps surprisingly, the one that's caused me the most anxiety is the "attend 4 Instructor Trainer community meetings," as my schedule changes semester to semester and tends to make this difficult. I also was quite nervous about timing going into my first Instructor Training and teaching demo. I would be interested in finding ways to reduce Instructor Trainer worries about fulfilling requirements, whether that be through exploring changes to the Instructor Trainer Training Program or the active status policy, or through exploring support systems. I also would be interested in discussing ways to reduce Instructor Trainer stress about timing or other challenges intrinsic to instructor training and teaching demos.
### What are your strengths in collaborative work that will help you to be effective as a member of this group?	
I have a lot of experience collaborating with different groups in different roles. For several semesters, I have managed groups of 8–9 teaching assistants each semester for a general education course. In this role, I am the leader and must incorporate their feedback alongside course requirements into final decisions for the course. I also have served as a member on many committees in my department—such as a committee that oversees undergraduate coursework and policies, a job search committee, and an award nominations committee—as well as on academic integrity and teaching demonstration panels where we members must come to unanimous decisions that impact faculty and student outcomes in major ways. Furthermore, I have a lot of experience ranking applicants (in the context of scholarship and tuition waiver applicants as well as job applicants) using rubrics that would apply well to ranking Instructor Trainer applicants. In meetings, I strive to keep discussion flowing so important points are sufficiently covered in a timely way.
### Is there anything else you would like to share with the community?	
As a new Instructor Trainer, I'm sure it will take me some time to spin up in what the ITLC does. But I'm a dedicated learner, and The Carpentries community has been incredibly supportive, which makes me confident I can ultimately learn and do well. The Carpentries is by far the most actively supportive community I've encountered in my professional life, and I can't overstate how much that means to me and other learners and how that gives us hope that we can push past challenges.

## Jon Wheeler
### Briefly, summarize your history with The Carpentries and/or Carpentries-related activities.	
I was formerly the lead on a funded initiative to grow a statewide Carpentries community in New Mexico, US. Through this effort, I became an instructor in 2019 and an instructor trainer in 2021. I've organized and taught workshops in each of the lesson programs in a broad range of educational contexts, and am currently serving my first term on the trainer's leadership committee. 
### Have you served on the Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee previously? (Including before it was "official")	
Yes
### If you have served on the Instructor Trainers Leadership, use this space to share a few things about your past service in this role.	
I was elected to the Trainer's Leadership Committee last year, for the 2024-2025 term. With the changes in the Carpentries organization, much of the focus of the TLC last year was on changes to internal processes. As secretary, I contributed to coordinating Committee meetings and keeping our internal and published documentation up to date. An accomplishment that I'd most like to highlight is revisiting and updating the process for coordinating the monthly trainers meetings. This is something that was previously largely managed by the Core Team, but for which the TLC took on a more active role in support of the community and the Core Team following the 2023 staffing reduction. As part of this and other efforts to maintain momentum within the community, we also developed Handbook and other documentation to define meeting planning and other processes.
### What interests you about serving on the Instructor Trainers Leadership Committee?	
My engagement with the trainer and instructor communities are a rewarding part of my work, and I'm interested in continuing to contribute to an evolving model of Trainers Leadership that will support the efforts of the community and the Core Team. As a community we were able to build and maintain momentum in a period of change, and I'd like to continue to be part of a team that is focused on growing a community that I really value being part of.
### What would you bring to this role that may be valuable for the Committee and/or the community?	
My experience with the Carpentries is broad. In addition to my contributions as an instructor and trainer, I have some experience with lesson development and maintenance. As a volunteer, my perspective on and appreciation for the many aspects of what the Carpentries does is broad and deep. I also believe that my current service on the TLC as secretary will be of value to the new committee.
