
## Trainer meeting, 2 June 2022  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220602T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220602T14) 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
     
* Jake Szamosi    

**Others attending**

* Kari L. Jordan (she/her)
* Kelly Barnes (she/her)
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries (out of Beaverton, Oregon, USA)
* Ben Chiewphasa (he/him/his)
* Grace Fishbein (she/her)
* Angelique Trusler, any pronoun, The Carpentries
* Aleks Nenadic, she/her, Software Sustainability Institute, University of Manchster, UK
* Karen Word (she/her)
* Hao Ye (he/him)
* Maneesha Sane / any pronoun / The Carpentries 
* Luis J. Villanueva, he/him, VA, US
* Sher! (she/her)
* Trisha Adamus (she/her)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 


### **Agenda**:

* Introductions
  * Warm Up Question: What is one feature of an online meeting or event that makes you happy / gives you confidence that the meeting will be a good one?
  * Greeting as you join
  * Starts with some music
  * icebreakers/participation +1
  * people talking with each other as they come in (was called out on playing the wrong music, specifically, Hiroyoshi Yoshimura) +1
  * conversations that extend into meeting time (without taking TOO much time)
  * someone else notetaking and sharing afterward
  * icebreakers +1 getting to feel more informal/relaxed
  * seeing pets, babies duckies toys etc. Seeing people you know, seeing people with cameras on
  * well structured agenda, knowing what's going to happen and when interaction will happen +1
  * happening chat, private chats that make people laugh
  * icebreakers but moreso because focusing on technical things, good way to be sure everyone is connected, microphone works etc. don't have to stress about technical difficulties
  * having camera on
  * instructor starts with a burst of energy
  * keeping camera on when eating or moving around the room, acknowledges humanity and permission to do what you need to do to stay engaged
#### Pre and post workshop discussion
* Teaching with Sarah Brown in a couple of weeks. It's unclear whether the workbench beta will be ready in time but would try to use it if it is; if not then not. 
* Zhian: still trying to wrap up some things with scheduling pre-beta phases, getting deployments to work. Francois is working on AWS side. If you want to keep up with updates, follow blogposts and workbench repo carpentries/workbench
* Don't know who's coming. Haven't seen pre-training data yet. Maybe matters less for Instructor Training event -- what field they come from etc. 
* Kelly: have you taught previously groups that came from similar background?
* Jake: yes and no. Worried about people in far-flung time zones and with unreliable internet. Grace had some good tips about reducing bandwidth by stopping incoming video -- should show people how to do this.
* Grace: I am a zoom expert. Instructions for everyone in the workshop to shut off incoming video really helped.
* Settings: video settings: enable stop incoming video
* THEN view (top right corner) -> stop incoming video
* Ask Grace on Slack if you have questions about Zoom troubleshooting!
* ALSO: it is still possible to share your zoom windows. Settings Screen share, show my zoom windows to other participants when screen sharing. (Some Zoom memberships don't have this).
* Maybe this could be a future meeting topic? Current best-practices in Zoom?
* Aleks: can you change during the call?
* You can toggle anything except browser settings during the call. 
#### Announcements
* Quarterly schedule for training events should be posted by the end of this week. If you were not matched to an event, you will hear from us soon to confirm that.
* Certification renewal emails will go out end of June
* CarpentryCon proposals are open through 12 June
* [https://2022.carpentrycon.org/blog/proposal-submission-open/](https://2022.carpentrycon.org/blog/proposal-submission-open/)
#### Topic of the month: CarpentryCon!
* Trainers might be well-suited to do lightning talks (5 min pre-recorded) on a topicof teaching or a sort demonstration of teaching. Share synchonously in themed clusters and talk about teaching practices. 
* Is anyone interested in doing this? What kind of teaching thing would you put in a lightning talk?
* Teaching bits that could belong in a lightning talk
* Tips to get back in-person+1+1
* catering
* using the microphone
* telling people where the water fountains and bathrooms are
* getting learners to talk to each other again (had trouble getting people to introduce themselves at their tables in the last workshop I hosted)
* How are online and in-person workshops different (for those trained during the pandemic)+1 (WAT)
* addressing typing speed (of instructors and learners)
* Teaching Centrally-Organised Workshops +1 How to signup for teaching opportunites etc+1 (WAT)
* how often to use sticky-note feedback
* Zoom tips and tricks with Grace and Jake+1+1+1
* Ben (might not be a lightning talk?): How to successfully prepare pre-workshop logistics meetings with helpers and co-instructors (i.e., onboarding new helpers, quick and useful tips that are most important, etc.)+1+1+1
* helper onboarding feels like it could be its own thing even beyond a lightning talk!+1
* software installation parties! (the baby shark will continue until everyone installs the software dependencies!)
* History teaches us that torture is ineffective ;)
* Not sure how it would go given a lightnig talk, but: Pacing and speaking with intention to avoid cramming information in.
* starting over from an empty environment during the middle of a lesson or after a break, to give more opportunities to catch up or recover from errors
* Breaks!
* Get to know the trainers coffee chat. Ask the trainer session. (Trainer leadership?)
* outreach / getting sign-ups
* HOw to contribute on GitHub
* "Good"/bad teaching demo videos
* examples of teaching demo feedback, too (I don't think we have as many examples of that in the instructor training lesson?)
* I don't know if it needs its own lightning talk, but in a pre-workshop tips and tricks: software installation parties
* "How to contribute to a lesson using the GitHub editor" - Zhian Kamvar and Sarah Stevens volunteered (not a lightning talk)
* Directions you would like to see The Carpentries go (maybe topics for broader sessions)
* data ethics
* 

How will synchronous hours be scheduled?

1. - we don't have specifics on synchronous hours. If you have time requirements you should mention that. We will try to spread topics across time zones. 
1. - keynote list will be finalised in the next week or so. We will then ensure events will be accessible to all (might include recordings etc). 
* Lightning talks w teaching tips/demos
* Lighning talk discussion panels
* Your ideas
* Larger formats are available! Working on a panel about incorporating more data ethics into Carpentries+1. Think about the direction you would like to see The Carpentries go, and how you might want to help make things better.


## Trainer Meeting 2 June 2022, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220602T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220602T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**


*    Danielle Sieh
*    Yani Bellini Saibene

**Others attending**


* Ariel Deardorff, UC San Francisco (physically in Seattle)
* Murray Cadzow, University of Otago, New Zealand
* Michael Culshaw-Maurer, CyVerse/Carpentries (physically in Houston)
* Danielle Sieh, The Carpentries, Columbus OH, US
* Zac Painter, Stanford University
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries (physically in Beaverton, Oregon, USA)
* Yani Bellini Saibene, Argentina, 
* Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF, Queensland Australia
* Liz Stokes (she/they) ARDC, Sydney Australia

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

### **Agenda**:

#### Introductions
* Warm Up Question: What is one feature of an online meeting or event that makes you happy / gives you confidence that the meeting will be a good one?
* When there is an agenda with interaction points
* When you come into the room and there is music playing and an icebreaker that people do as they come in (note: music might be a contention point because tastes differ/strong sounds can be distracting or grating)
* Depends on size, but having some music playing or people making connections early on is great. Friend recently streamed wildlife and seems pretty fun.
* Any meeting that is run by Karen
* Any meeting that has a live agenda document
* When people's cameras are all on
* Knowing someone is moderating the tech
* When people are talking with each other and generally getting along
* Agenda at least one day previous to the meating; chance to participate in different ways (writing or speaking).
* When the first discussion point/icebreaker is well pitched and people are participating and getting things out of it. It answers that social trust thing that you need in the meetings.
#### Pre and post workshop discussion
* Taught with Kristen Lee and John Wheeler
* Learned quickly that you are not going to make every person happy
* Difficult aspect: lot of people who were looking for more than just the training material as a visual for following along. 
* **Question for the group:** how do you accomodate people who want different visuals?
* Karen: this probably should be a formal conversation in the trainers repo. There are at least three ways of doing this:
* 1. screenshare etherpad with links to images (allows learners to see where they are and see where we are writing)
* 2. slides from common slidedeck (though this is not actively maintained)
* 3. instructor training curriculum
* 4. (bonus!) Karen knows people have their own super secret slide decks out there!!! &lt;.&lt;
* Ariel: I've made my own slide deck from an earlier slide deck, adding my own diagrams.
* found it hard just to have my face showing or just the etherpad showing
* had recent experience where she used slides and other instructor didn't and the feedback was a mixed bag ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
* Danielle: I'm definitely a visual person and can see the benefit of having a slide deck. 
* Karen: We should encourage trainers to discuss in advance. If you haven't talked in advance, then you don't get a chance to be part of that decision
* Ariel (from chat): I think some sections need more slides than others. For some the slides was just an image from the materials, for others it was more of a checklist/bullet points
* Liz: What are the things that people want to see visually that's going to help them? Last time I did training, we cut and pasted the objectives and made a point of drawing their attention to that. Having big slides for the activities can be handy things.
* Karen: It would be cool one day to generate a slide deck HINT HINT
* Ariel: one thing that I found: people expect slides from their other workshops. Make sure peop;le are aware of what your expectations for presentation are.
* Murray: Our trainings often have a base slide deck inherited from &lt;redacted>. We oscillate between the three methods---objectives slide; images ripped from content; slides with exercise instructions, but outside of that, we leave it to the instructor to jump between. We tend not to share just the website and it highlights how much we are skipping and provides a lot of distraction to the learners. 
* Mark: Occasionally, I will put information dense topics as a slide and give people some time to read it over.
* Question: do you share the slides with the participants?
* Yes, afterwards
* From chat: For the more discussion heavy sections I make sure to not be screen sharing anything so that we can see all the faces
* +1 to Murray. That is another thing that is odd about using slides, having to share and stop sharing constantly
* I highlight in my notes when to stop sharing slides so as Murray suggests, we get back to seeing faces
* Yani
* We had a training in spanish.
* Second time teaching in the language
* 16 or 17 people
* Used a spanish slide deck
* Yani added final slide to each section with a concept map (karen wants to see these maps)
* We had one more day for checkout, helping people with demos, community discussions, and github.
* Everyone who came (12) completed the checkout.
* The feedback showed that there was a lot of excitement for the accessibility elements of the curriculum
#### Announcements
* Quarterly schedule for training events should be posted by the end of this week. If you were not matched to an event, you will hear from us soon to confirm that.
* Certification renewal emails will go out end of June
* CarpentryCon proposals are open through 12 June
* [https://2022.carpentrycon.org/blog/proposal-submission-open/](https://2022.carpentrycon.org/blog/proposal-submission-open/)
#### Topic of the month: CarpentryCon!
* **Teaching-related topics that might be useful to cover in a lightning talk type thing**
* facilitating activities - how do you handle/balance breakout rooms, report outs, calling on people, reading out answers in the etherpad, etc +1
* Engaging disconnected learners (camera off, not asking questions)+1
* Pitching interaction to a large group of cameras off. aka managing expectations about online interactivity
* Ice breakers - why they are useful and ideas for ice breakers, great introduction tips for starting an online workshop (ie. setting the scene for a successful workshop)+1
* How to handle that student who interrupts a lot by asking questions. + 1
* Responding to feedback from learners
* Different uses (and options) of the shared document to solve exercises, share material, have disussions, etc.+ 1

**Bigger ideas that might be better for a full -length panel, skill-up, or break-out discussion**
* Teaching Instructor Training content outside of Instructor Training (as journal clubs, integrated into other trainings, etc) - group sharing or brainstorming 
* Some of the bigger ideas on the list could be unpacked in BattleDecks format. I guess I'm suggesting a fun session here. This is an interactive game where contestants  are given a mystery slide deck and prompted to give an impromptu 2 minute lightning talk. It can be a lot of fun, and might appeal to Instructor types and community facilitator extrovert types. It's fun to watch also. I'm thinking of the topic "The contexts in which The Carpentries are being used (e.g., academia, labs, government, private/corporate sector, secondary schools)"
* Catch-up scripts. Where a learner has big problems in a session, could we discuss the benefits of building R script, Python notebooks that they could download and run to get their environment back on track to continue the workshop.
* Where to go next- it seems that after leaving a really high-quality introductory workshop, learners can experience something of a cliff, faced with obtusely written blog posts and methods papers+1. +1
* Developing intermediate skills usually comes from a lot of time spent running into problems and solving them, building up a piecemeal skillset. How can we help learners accelerate that process and maybe use some of our Carpentries approaches to do so? +1
* This is Michael typing this one, but I'm going to be on parental leave during CarpentryCon, so if someone else wants to take point on this, that would be cool
* Lightning talks w teaching tips/demos
* Lighning talk discussion panels
* Your ideas
