# Trainer meeting, 7 April 2022  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220407T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Mark Laufersweiler (he/him) with Tim  Dennis


**Others attending**
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Eric Jankowski (he/him/his)
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Pao Corrales (she/her)
- Kristin Lee
- Trisha Adamus (she/her)
- Luis J Villanueva (he/him)
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him)
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his)
- Kari L. Jordan (she/her)
- Angela Li (she/her)
- Annajiat Alim Rasel (he/him)
- Yared Abera(he/him/his)



**Apologies:**
- Aleks Nenadic

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

## Agenda:
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Mark and Tim taught at the beginning of March. About 20 people. 2 dropped out, one technical and one conflict (lately it seems like more people have been dropping on zoom events, so that was pretty good). Have known Tim for a long time, so that was fun. First time with new curriculum -- last time they had both stuck with the old one, bit the bullet this time and it went really well. Nothing really to report regarding first curriculum teaching. Wanted to try again with homework as concept map, but curriculum now has concept mapping in 2 places so picking one time for a homework was harder. Tried it the second time that the concept map was introduced. Probably number one question on feedback. Everyone agreed it was important and liked when they saw it but creating one on their own was still kind of tough, wanted more explanation and examples.
- Maybe we can start a collection bin of favorite examples?
- Maybe 8-9 people willing to share their concept maps. If we force them into groups we still get people who aren't really willing to participate. How to get people to participate? If they don't try it they won't get it. If you don't show something you can't get feedback.
- Karen: maybe we need to drop concept maps or refer out?
- Mark: as homework it works pretty well. Greg used to do it as pre-homework. No computerized versions, only hand-written. Only 2 used a tool mostly hand-drawn in our event. One less tool we have to teach in the middle of a workshop. Maybe time to cut though.
- Annajiat: usually use
tools
https://draw.io
using GraphViz, https://graphviz.org/ and DOT language, https://graphviz.org/doc/info/lang.html
https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/concept-map
and as a reference: https://learningcenter.unc.edu/tips-and-tools/using-concept-maps/
- Eric: learning outcomes. Concept maps as a way of diagnosing mental models - maybe not so important that we build our own, but using your mental model to see where connections aren't quite right and helping to make those connections. Quick tie-in to a multiple choice diagnostic question might help to illustrate the idea, then just move on. Included but not a 30 minute thing.
- Mark: agree, probably addition question is most logical. Surely somewhere in the archives for one of our lessons we have a concept map that was used during curriculum development but never wanted to share. Maybe in the incubator someone has been working on one.
- Margareth: Like concept maps very much and people in my trainings also like it very much, not only for Carpentries but also for other purposes. It's a first experiment for them with concept maps. It's often difficult to stop them because they come up with different ideas. Very valuable. I am a teacher from the old school and we had to work a lot with concept maps. Use X-mind which is a free software that can be used for this
- Annajiat: as a learner myself I also struggle without examples, this helps learners to create and share with others
.
## Announcements
- certification renewal process is behind schedule already! Sorry. We want to get this right, and that may take a little longer than we'd planned.
- Trainer needed for 4-half-day event afternoons AEST June 14-17 (start time here: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Instructor+Training&iso=20220614T12&p1=240&ah=4 )
- Submit a favorite teaching tip for the newsletter! https://forms.gle/4haQo3dgoYxsvxQX6
## Topic of the month:
- "DEI" around the world. "Diversity", "equity", and "inclusion" can mean very different things in different places. What are the axes of variation and power that are most visible or talked about in your community, or other communities you have worked with? What words do people use to describe efforts in this area? How common is it for groups to discuss or host trainings that focus on these issues?
- Mark: university libraries. A lot of concern about DEI topics, we have a working committee. They have been thinking about all the different avenues. Race, gender, class, but when we went online we realized people didn't have broadband so we purchased "hockey pucks" from local cell provider for people in rural areas. They may not have broadband but they do have a cell tower. Across all different areas. Folks with learning disabilities -- we can't ask a lot of times, but have to discern this or give people the opportunity to report if they wish. Vision, hearing. Having a signer who can sign for a presentation. Huge topic, the library seems to be leading the charge on this. Most DEI offices are completely understaffed.
- Yared: very sensitive and important topic in Ethiopia, and east Africa generally. When it comes to training, we are giving chancels for those people who we think require additional support. Here that is women often do not have access. Margareth can share also. They give more than equal chances for women to participate. Spaces only for women to participate to increase the number of women involved. They used to empower less privileged people in the university's legislation and guidelines that helps to promote people in various sectors. The government has taken this seriously to advance women's participation. The focus of the carpentries is empowering in our training
- Nathaniel: also library, also central focus because we connect pieces and services, also because library people tend to be very aware of these issues. There are a few different approaches here and major challenges. One thing we emphasize is trainings ancertifications to work with specific groups or seek specific goals. Accessibility certifications. "support for an autism friendly environment" - helps faculty be aware of particular needs of students with autism. Other initiatives that call attention to history as a land grant university on a plantation with slaves, taken from indigenous folks. One thing we discovered when we did a survey related to accessibility is number of intersectional access issues that connect to historically marginalized groups. Transportation challenges, language, family, broadband access compound in ways we don't necessarily expect, e.g. GIS online workshop without a powerful computer or not being able to get to campus. Eye-opening to see how much those connected. where we really have not gone is really partnering with people in historicaly marginalized groups rather than a service model doing things for rather than with people. This changes the approach to how we think about instruction from technical fixes
- Kristin: also library! Building on idea of partnering with folks and not imparting our wisdom but partnering with other groups: lessons and lesson materials often don't have inclusive language, not overt but how programmers talk. "fu" and "bar" -- not everyone gets this, also militaristic. Things we could work harder at understanding.
- Margareth: the gender issue. We have done so much and the success is so little. NOt sure if it is good to bring out gender/women. I'm not supporting the quota for women at all, because many women suffer from quotas because they are not fully qualified. They feel they have to show gender. Performance is neutral and has no gender. We have to establish a training, on gender sensitive training. This is crucial. We have done leadership training for females only. They are very smart but they want to get everything at the same time. They are over-burdened doing degree and parenting and leadership training at the same time.
- Eric: Gender is one dimension on which DEI efforts are focused in idaho becuase it is one of the more accessible facets for white faculty. It is harder to understand and solve problems for black students when there are so few of them
- Margareth: "inclusion" is really a topic in Addis Ababa. Have attended conferences where there are sign language interpreters. It worked well! Blind people around the university. The library is fully accessible. Outside of the city it doesn't work; outside of the city is a disadvantage
- Angela: one piece that wasn't mentioned was English/non-English speaking dichotomy. Previous research center this was a big problem. The Carpentries does a pretty good job, but we often assume English is primary. It's possible for these axes to intersec. A person of color from a high class background with access to technical resources vs a woman from different class etc.


## Trainer Meeting 7 April 2022, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220407T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Jake Szamosi
- Murray Cadzow (he/him)

**Others attending**
 - Jon Wheeler (he/him)
 - Ariel Deardorff (she/her)
 - Mark Crowe (he/him)
 - Danielle Sieh (she/her)
 - Sara King (she/her)
 - Tim Dennis (he/him)
 - Liz Stokes (she/they)
 - Sarah Brown
 - Zac Painter
 - Jeff Oliver - present only in spirit, since I'm wrapping up Instructor Training now ;)
 - Bonny Adane -



Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

## Agenda:
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Jake: 2 events in 6 days!! Don't recommend this. A couple of thoughts from each. First was with Grace, went pretty well overall, got really consistent feedback that the time to do the exercises was not just tight but actually too short to meanningfully do them in a lot of cases. Felt true. Maybe we want to expand those times a little, even adding a minute or two makes a real difference (discovered on the second try). Second event also went well. A thing came up that I can always handle in person but not online. One person didn't do anything wrong but persistently failed to read the room. Always the first to talk, always having an opinion/something to say that mde it hard for others to have space. In person, being in person can have an inhibiting effect, and I can ask to hear from others. I failed to manage this time. We actually got feedback that being in a breakout with them was stressful -- didn't know what to do ohter than randomize the breakouts. Would like feedback on that.
- Mark: we had one or two maybe not quite as extreme on the last one. Challenging, opinionated, in a way that was slightly contrary to Carpentries culture. Arguing and disagreeing almost against some of the techniques and things we tried to teach. Tried to gently encourage others to give input. By the end of the event they were coming around a little and that point they became useful as outspoken people who are more aligned.
- Liz: perhaps a thing about managing expectations from the start. One thing I don't often do but will try is start with a story from background as an undergrad. Attended a lot of activist colective meetings, we had a speaking list. People who were part of socialist factions who would talk all the time and railroad. Or act togehter in blocks to change the direction of conversations and consensus building. Person running the list would make it progressive by bumping up new speakers and underrepresented speakers. Decentered loudest people in the room. Surprised on Zoom that many peers and colleagues would not read the room, jump in, wouldn't know how to speak or how to indicate that. Surely we all take turns? Not necessarily the case. Asking them to notice when someone is speaking a lot, for those of you feeling full of answers to reflect on that and take turns.
- Jake: for technical workshops I actually encourage people to interrupt just to get them to talk. In instructor trainings there is a lot of discussion and maybe need to rethink this
- Ariel: maybe centering on you a little, calling people out based on etherpad comments to get more people talking. Pulling aside in a breakout or private chat?
- Murray: not sure about breakouts, but often we have difficulty in our workshops getting people to speak at all, so I will go down the list and call on people. Asking a particular person.
- Jake: have often resisted cold calling, but in intructor training it may be different
- Karen: did you talk with your co-trainer?
- Jake: yes. One was new, the other was in and out with meetings. Live coding we decided to shuffle the groups. In the moment it didn't feel possible. Also just tired from two workshops, didn't trust myself to handle it diplomatically.
- Murray: first event of the year, NZ focused. NZ always seems behind the eight ball -- only just now are we really realizing that online workshops are a thing (because we've still been doing in person until recently). Really enforced a lot of comments that the curriculum is very in-person focused with little online information. Especially with the focus to permanent online workshops there seems to be a disconnect. Other was around the CoC and the online workshops, how to enforce in online space.
- Jake: have finally smoothed out CoC teaching. Conceptually and talking about it, distinguishing 2 scenarios of violations within the community and within-the-moment incidents at a workshop. Pointing out that most of what is written in the CoC is intended for the former situation, and the main purpose of the CoC with respect to a workshop is to empower people to do what they feel safe doing and know that The Carpentries has their back. Point to the section linked in the curriculum, but also in the CoC not in the reporting section but 2.3 consequences for bad behavior it does say you can be kicked out of a workshop etc. In the moment you know your position of power, won't tell you what you have to do but the choices that you make will be backed , no one is going to tell you you shouldn't have kicked someone out etc. We are aware that we aren't finished developing this.
- Murray: the day of the workshop I saw this blog post: https://www.cathrinewilhelmsen.net/why-your-event-needs-code-of-conduct-and-plan-process-for-enforcing-it/ very relevant, might be worht getting some of this into our curriculum.
## Announcements
- certification renewal process is behind schedule already! Sorry. We want to get this right, and that may take a little longer than we'd planned.
- Trainer needed for 4-half-day event afternoons AEST June 14-17 (start time here: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Instructor+Training&iso=20220614T12&p1=240&ah=4 )
- Submit a favorite teaching tip for the newsletter! https://forms.gle/4haQo3dgoYxsvxQX6
- Topic of the month: "DEI" around the world. "Diversity", "equity", and "inclusion" can mean very different things in different places. What are the axes of variation related to power and access that receive the most attention in your community, or other communities you have worked with? What words do people use to describe efforts in this area? How common is it for groups to discuss or host trainings that focus on these issues?
- Sara K: we use these words a lot in Australia for various groups. In education they are really common usage. For a person my age, diversity often means racial diversity. We also talk about gender proportions. Inclusion is an interesting one as well. Rural divide is a really big thing in australia, especially re digital inclusion and internet access. Now we have most of our government online and government benefits have to be accessed online but people have to drive to get to computers to apply.  Ageism is also gaining awareness. Ageism in tech,  IBM is having to rethink its culture, in my circles this is fairly important.
- Murray "black/white" - I'm in a genomics backgrtound and we do a lot with ancestry. We really shy away from black/white terminology. In a NZ context the ways of classifying people are very different. We have at least 3 different ethnic groups that people can identify as. Origin rather than skin color. When we deal with US colleagues they'll have ethnicity as black/white/hispanic
- Mark: ethnicity and language-other-than-English
- Liz: in terms of aboriginal or indigenous identity, there are ways of discussing different nations or tribes within nations, so recognizing larger groups or broader ways of self-description is something that comes up. Within government "ATSI" is used in relation to programs but not something you would call someone. Recently went searching for DEI policies across universities
- How do your institutions address this?
- In NZ we have a treaty between the Maori and the crown. Every institution has an obligation to ensure indigenous representation. This is a great effort to address the disparities that have been caused in the past. That is the primary one that is addressed. Lots of secondary and tertiary legels where we look at representation. Less white and male.
- Jake: here what you'll see is mostly academic institutions asking if people ientifey as a member of a racialized group, and maybe have you specify. In addition you will have a separate question as to whether you identify as indigenous (first nations etc) but there are indigenous people who are not members of those groups. There is a list, and it is quite long if it is provided.
- Mark: in Australia most large initiatives are targeting women into senior positions. Racial ones less focused on those but there is a very long way to go on this. Less on integration or improvement of asians, africans etc. Go to conferences and they are peased to have equal representation of sexes.
- Sara: Agree, not very concerted efforts for particular groups. Broad brush of multiculturalism. We do have antidiscrimination laws prohibitign racial discrimination. NOt really aware of specific target groups. There are a lot of different groups. Our university is working with this group https://www.everyagecounts.org.au to make sure we are friendly towards older people. We sometimes work with specialist groups to ensure we are doing things they want us to do. People with disabilities, expert groups etc. Disability is also a big one for us.
- Liz: this is a massive topic. There is a lot everywhere. Impact is a big thing. CSIRO invests in schools and promoting science in schools to girls to create the workforce of the future. Bringing that perspective that there are lots of things like that.


* There's a DEI in GLAM survey doing the rounds from the US-based  DLF (Digital Library Federation) Committee on Equity and Inclusion.
