# Trainer meeting, January 20, 2022 UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220120T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Angela Li  / Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers) (post)
- Daniel Chen he/him (post)

**Others attending**
- Mateusz Kuzak / He/him / the Nwtherlands eScience Center
- Margareth Gfrerer / Higher Education Strategy Center, Addis Ababa
- Alexander Konovalov / he,him / University of St Andrews
- Sarah Brown, she/her, University of Rhode Island
- Aleksandra Nenadic / she, her / Software Sustainability Institute, Uni of Manchester, UK
- Grace Fishbein, she/her, ACENET, Newfoundland, Canada
- Jake Szamosi, Farncombe Metagenomics Facility, McMaster University
- Jannetta Steyn, she/her, Newcastle University, UK
- Hao Ye (he/him) / University of Florida
- Zac Painter, Stanford
- Bonny Adane
- Karin Lagesen / She/her, Oslo, Norway
- Toby Hodges (he/him) / The Carpentries

**Apologies**
- Angelique Trusler


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Sarah Brown

## Agenda:
- Warmup: In The Carpentries lingo, "Instructors" are people who teach technical workshops and "Trainers" or "Instructor Trainers" are people who teach Instructor training. However... many communities refer to people who teach technical workshops as "trainers". What words are most often used to describe Instructors in your community? Is this vocabulary also confusing in other languages? (Bonus for any suggestions for a better name for "Instructor Trainers")
- Trainer trainers
- member of a "train the trainer" progam
- always use instructor modifier on trainer
- train the trainer refers to instructor training
- provide definition instead of or prior to term
- I teach researchers how to teach researchers about programming

## Pre and post workshop discussion
Angela & Sarah post
- large group (~20+), but still interactive
- people asked for slides after the first half day
- Question: how do you usually cut the fourth half day?
- Question: how to manage attention during a workshop continues to be awkward (end of memory & cognitive load)
- some thigns overlap through other sections
- some points are tightly coupled but could be earlier
- also, don't worry about the repepentition it can be good
- Question: how do you use slides?
- Sometimes we will have slides to explain a concept that a visualization would be useful for (e.g., concept mapping), but otherwise I generally do not often use slides
- Science of Learning pre-reading HW - useful?
- Daniel & Nathaniel (post)
- when you're not a librarian it can be hard to teach librarians
- Library Carpentry in its default state has some lessons that can be different in approach from the standard SWC curriculum; it is probably worth pointing out that the mission of the Carpentries curriculum is to know how to do a complete practice of computational research - no matter what form that takes
- some were public librarians who teach more basic technology skills than computational research skills as we typically teach, it was hard for them to connect
- focus on live coding, but not as much on live demonstration
- there is a lot of overlap
- I think the principles of teaching technology in an active follow-along way apply equally well to teaching seniors to use a keyboard as much as it does a postdoc R.
- That's all bundled under "Go slowly". and then in the same list of "top ten tips', there is "turn off notifications on your computer and phone"
- should we develop a broader top ten lists in addtion to the live coding list Toby volunteers
- we shoudl be aware that the way we introduce even if the points we are making still apply that if our examples are all coding focused, people may check out and not realized that the more salient part is applicable
- give tips for teaching GUI type things as well (go slowly while clicking is even more important as the screen changes and they can't always see what you clicked on).
- ’ve taught those public library courses before. Sarah makes a good point about translating the language to others to make it more relevant to their needs.
- how to advise people to choose an episode
- (do the hardest)
- increaed cognitive load is teaching while doing something on the screen, so picking a particular teaching episode can use coding or non-coding examples

## Announcements
- Trainer Training has begun! Trainees will be joining events as observers and asking to observe demos.
- Community Development Program Draft Report is available for review for those interested: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T49IPoxos_Ue2SteuIsM6zGBJ9HyWcPptBrU2cuB09o/edit?usp=sharing
- Alycia welcomes any feedback on document or via email alycia@carpentries.org; you can also set up a meeting with her (http://calendly.com/alycia-carpentries)
- Cancellation and Makeups policy is now in the handbook: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/cancellations_and_makeups.html Please review!
- New survey dashboards show aggregate results over the past 12 months for
- workshops https://workshop-reports.carpentries.org//?aggregate-workshops
- and instructor training https://workshop-reports.carpentries.org/?aggregate-instructor-training
- workshops dashboard has been added to Building Skill with Feedback episode
- also, transition to typeform is completed
- These dashboards are great! A great improvement over the Surveymonkey ones, love the viz. Great job Francois!!
- We are looking for more teaching tips for our newsletter! Submit your favorites here: https://forms.gle/66XNwEkPLxTULxFT8
- We still need more nominees for Trainers Leadership. This group has been very successful at having a big impact on a small time budget. They contribute to development of The Carpentries, support sustainability, and prevent us from becoming too 'top-heavy' in our decision processes as we scale. We think of ourselves as a "community-led" organization, but this can't happen without community leadership.
- all actions as proposal https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues
- summary report to EC: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2021-09-leadership-to-ec.md
- https://forms.gle/xXJBMrTzqxFTH3GKA
- Concurrently with the Trainers Leadership election, we will ask the community to ratify the new Certification Renewal process to replace the Trainer Agreement.
- (new) Certification Renewal: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/143
- (previous) Trainer Agreement: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-agreement
- 2022 Trainer Meeting schedule will be posted in the README file on the Trainers repository, with instructions to submit a proposed topic or suggest a cancellation. PR here: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/155
- Staffing is short in Instructor Training right now. Please be a 'squeaky wheel' as needed to be sure you get attention when it matters. Maybe a good time to wait on non-essential inquiries, though. :)
- Q2 scheduling will be open Jan 31-Feb 18
## Topic of the month: Teaching about the Code of Conduct
- discussion: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/discussions/147
- what we teach feels a little bit like, here's a CoC, you have to enforce it
- some answers are in the CoC documentation, but can be hard to find
- currently onboarding new CoCc members, hope to do more tidying up soon
- I recently found this CoC scenario page and shared it with folks at our meeting so they felt like they had examples: https://carpentries.github.io/community-facilitators-program/03-4-code-of-conduct-facilitation-scenarios/index.html (Though it does suggest that there are CoC facilitators that exist and can support)
- program on pause due to human power issues
- CoC committee wants reports, even if fully anonymous to know what happened and what the response was, reporting is data collection, not only for penalty
- Explanation and context for how the curriculum currnetly is: we wanted it to be more honest that we are not prescritive
- the CoC is to prevent rot in the community, the goal is long term prevention, not specific scenario focused)
- most things that people are concerned about are subthreshold events. that are much more likely
- the content is wher it is because the main piece of advice is that it should be a team response
- idelaly everyone should feel empowered to respond, but at least one person on the teaching/hosting team should be able to respond.
- CoC is not the law, it's not aimed to catch people whenthey violate, main is to set expectations, to create norms
- empowered from the CoCc side, but internally may or may not personally feel empowered and may have addiitonal local reporting requirements.
- re: data use of reports, basically just tracking, looking for trends, more rude behavior vs discrimination. information requested is nature of the incident, than the detials like name, unless you want the CoCc to respond
- aggregate, very broadly, anonymized data might be used to create a feedback loop with training
- a heuristic to when to report, if someone would remember it a month later, then report it
- If there’s any question that it might be a CoC violation
- what do we tell instructor trainees  that they can do?
- would a script or a set of principles
- possible role playing
- People did a really good job at our workshop talking through and thinking about CoC incidents - during the training, I think the thing is mainly to get them thinking about making a plan *in the very rare case* that something bad does happen. I gave them probably 30 minutes on CoC and talking through the activity (more than I ever did before) People also brought their own examples which we talked through: https://pad.carpentries.org/2022-01-14-ttt-online-EST#L906
- enocurage people to make a plan and think through,
- think of it like a sliding scale
- how to approach, have a plan for what to do if a single comment, rely on the host as a resource
- i also teach it as: very rare events and being proactive will help keep it low
- some discomfort in people to report







# Trainer Meeting January 20, 2022 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220120T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Karen Word (pre)


**Others attending**
- Murray Cadzow, he/him, University of Otago, NZ
- Jeff Oliver, he/him, University of Arizona, USA
- Kate Hertweck, perceived pronouns, CZI, USA
- Jon Wheeler, he/him, University of New Mexico, USA
- Mark Laufersweiler, he/him, Univ of Oklahomer
- Yanina Bellini Saibene, she/her, MetaDocencia/INTA, Argentina
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University
- Pao Corrales, she/her
- Ariel Deardorff, she/her, University of California San Francisco, USA
- Liz Stokes (she/they) ARDC, Sydney Australia


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

## Agenda:
## Warmup:
In The Carpentries lingo, "Instructors" are people who teach technical workshops and "Trainers" or "Instructor Trainers" are people who teach Instructor training. However... many communities refer to people who teach technical workshops as "trainers". What words are most often used to describe Instructors in your community? Is this vocabulary also confusing in other languages? (Bonus for any suggestions for a better name for "Instructor Trainers")
- "I train the Instructors"
- Trainers are shoes
- Instructors for everything, it's all the same
- Drop "Instructor" from "Instructor Trainer"
- "instructores" and "entrenadores" the latter being more for sports generally. Docentes teach in general, Maestra in elementary school, professor/a in high school or university.
- Using lots of words for Instructor Trainers
- "instructor" and "entrenador" is not very useful, needs to be defined. Sometimes we just say them in English so someone can look them up in Carpentries materials.
- "trainer" and "instructor" are interchangeable. Let go of controlling what you cannot control, embrace the uncertainty! People often have the word "trainer" in their title or job responsibilities when they want to become Instructors.


## Pre and post workshop discussion
## Announcements
- Trainer Training has begun! Trainees will be joining events as observers and asking to observe demos.
- Community Development Program Draft Report is available for review for those interested: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1T49IPoxos_Ue2SteuIsM6zGBJ9HyWcPptBrU2cuB09o/edit?usp=sharing
- Alycia welcomes any feedback on document or via email alycia@carpentries.org; you can also set up a meeting with her (http://calendly.com/alycia-carpentries)
- Cancellation and Makeups policy is now in the handbook: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/cancellations_and_makeups.html Please review!
- New survey dashboards show aggregate results over the past 12 months for
- workshops https://workshop-reports.carpentries.org//?aggregate-workshops
- and instructor training https://workshop-reports.carpentries.org/?aggregate-instructor-training
- workshops dashboard has been added to Building Skill with Feedback episode
- We are looking for more teaching tips for our newsletter! Submit your favorites here: https://forms.gle/66XNwEkPLxTULxFT8
- We still need more nominees for Trainers Leadership. This group has been very successful at having a big impact on a small time budget. They contribute to development of The Carpentries, support sustainability, and prevent us from becoming too 'top-heavy' in our decision processes as we scale. We think of ourselves as a "community-led" organization, but this can't happen without community leadership.
- all actions as proposal https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues
- summary report to EC: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2021-09-leadership-to-ec.md
- https://forms.gle/xXJBMrTzqxFTH3GKA
- Concurrently with the Trainers Leadership election, we will ask the community to ratify the new Certification Renewal process to replace the Trainer Agreement.
- Certification Renewal: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/143
- Trainer Agreement: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-agreement
- 2022 Trainer Meeting schedule will be posted in the README file on the Trainers repository, with instructions to submit a proposed topic or suggest a cancellation. PR here: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/155
- Staffing is short in Instructor Training right now. Please be a 'squeaky wheel' as needed to be sure you get attention when it matters. Maybe a good time to wait on non-essential inquiries, though. :)
- Q2 scheduling will be open Jan 31-Feb 18
## Topic of the month: Teaching about the Code of Conduct
- discussion: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/discussions/147
- Both times teaching Instructor Training have felt uncomfortable talking about Code of Conduct enforcement and violations. Talked with Karen, got some background which was helpful but still uncomfrotable. Intent of documents seem to be in support of maintaining community in the long term but not in the moment of a workshop. Not at all confident in my ability to make that up on the fly. Is there stuff we could add to the curriculum? How do you handle this?
- Ariel: Recent event talked through a couple of scenarios. What if someone was really visibly frustrated, sighing a lot, visibly frustrated with the class? vs someon being really angry and throwing chairs. Brainstormed different situations. What would you do? Code of conduct as a tool, remind people  that we have one if they are crossing the line. Talked about situations we've seen. Never been in a situation with a big incident, just too much dismissive language etc.
- Mark: did have a really disruptive student, couldn't get his code to work, cussed out the class went out in thehallway and smashed a glass cabinet. Code of Conduct for the institution. We were lucky they left the classroom! You can stop teaching, but your local host should be close at hand for these type of things. When people contract The Carpentries to do workshops the local host isn't always available. If you do have someone removed, you do need to have a discussion with the group and follow up. We don't anticipate extreme events but they can happen. To say that we don't often have serious events, it does still need to be discussed. I always say at no point should you feel threatened and if you do you should leave.
- Jake: there is language that isn't linked from the curriculum. The linked text is about reporting to the CoCc, which is a looong delay. Wasn't obvious to me if it was ok to call the police. Maybe moving some language to somewhere more obvious would help. If I'm teaching a self-organized workshop full of grad students I work with all the time I feel responsible for making it a safe space for them, harder to leave
- Pao: Last year was part of CoC team at Use-R 2021. Took a course, read, came up with protocols, schedules to be on call 24h all week. Remember a few weeks before it began we realized we were not the first line of response if something happened. Waiting for an email to reach us. People that were going to deal with things were the moderators. Had to come up with very simple but useful rules, a list of things to do in case something happened. The most important thing was to do something and not let it pass by without acknowledging the problem (any problem). Then they transferred the problem to us to decide what to do. Carpentries activites happen in very different contexts sometimes in other institutions with other codes of conduct but think it is necessary to have this maybe short but useful guidelines for people in charge of an activitiy.
- Yani: Important to instructor and helpers who are the first line of response for this that we also practice how to respond to situations. I shared on the issue, I also did a course about this because I also didn't know how to handle this. We got advice and examples of how we can do things about them. If you at least think about it once, you are going to react in a better way. If you can't react because you are so shocked, that's a problem. We tried to do something like this the last time we taught in Spanish, created scenarios with breakout rooms. Think about what you will do. Then discuss in the main room. Activity they enjoyed the most, were very grateful to have this space. We hope never to see thses situations but it's good tobe prepared. It seems that there are two things: one is to know well the processes we have and the other is to prepare ourselves better to face these situations.
- Mark: main Carpentries violations I"m aware of have not been in workshops. One on a list who was demeaning or rude. CarpentryCon had 2 incidents. They were minor, but the CoC has also been formed for us the community so we practice what we preach and have avenues to address. The way we report and who acts on it may depend on whether it's within the community vs a learner at a workshop. The CoC also protects us at this meeting.
- Liz: this talk could be useful: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TYMUZHN8OZk
- Jake: When I first saw the documentation it really looked like things in the community, for things in the classroom we talked about power as an indvidual. Part of why it's difficult to give scripts is because it's not guaranteed that someone is in a position of social power. A script can put them in a difficult situation. But it is useful to draw the distinction between Carpentries internal actions and things that can happen at a workshop and be cear about what refers to what
