
## Trainer meeting, 3 November 2022  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221103T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221103T14) 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



*    Sarah Stevens - Pre & Post

**Others attending**



* Kari L. Jordan
* Mike Trizna
* Danielle Sieh (she/her)
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his)
* Alycia Crall (she/her)
* Maneesha Sane
* Mateusz (he/him/his)
* Mark Laufersweiler, he/him, Norman, Oklahoma 
* Sher!, She/her, The Carpentries
* Kely Barnes (she/her)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

**Apologies: ** Aleks Nenadic (I left some notes in the document for the Show and Tell)

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



### Introductions
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Sarah Stevens: First time not splitting into half days. I can go both ways.  I taught the whole third half day. I always cut preparing to teach. I spend a lot of time on checkout and carpentries stuff. I want to spend less time with the carpentries roles. I think I want to cut some exercises. I really want people to feel engaged in what the community is, but maybe I need to rearrange and cut that section.  
* Danielle: It is important to orient people to the community
* Kelly: Any tips for someone who hasn't taught in a year?
* Sarah: I wish I would have prepared more. Maybe cutting and editing excercises more ahead of time. 
* Mark: The pre meeting with the co instructor was really key. Take the time to read through the curriculum. Look at timing. If I have to drop something, what is my bridge.  Don't be hard on yourself. 
* Sarah B: You are still very engaged in other ways, even if you havent taught
* Mike: The act of making slides is helpful in preparing 
### Announcements
* Quarterly scheduling
* 11 November deadline
* poll for trainings: [https://forms.gle/W8ggVvtF8EC5Bwx37](https://forms.gle/W8ggVvtF8EC5Bwx37)
* calendly for demos [https://calendly.com/thecarpentries](https://calendly.com/thecarpentries)
* Workbench beta phase: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396)
* pre-beta stage 28 Nov
* beta stage 9 Jan
* No important changes between pre-beta and beta
* Feedback: [https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/KRBl4IZM](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/KRBl4IZM)
* Most important thing for Trainers to know: when we switch to workbench, we cannot have any open PRs. Small PRs are fine, but bigger changes should be issues from now until January 9
* Quick update on Checkout Project 
* Got a lot of feedback and now are moving through it in our group and coming up with recommendations
* Leadership will get an update next week
* Timeline extended a bit, but will keep updated
* Kelly is excited

### Topic of the month: Trainers Show and Tell
#### Tips
* How I prepare to host teaching demos
* Google doc for splitting who will teach what
* Here's a slightly redacted version of a real one: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aK_5jqKqxqaufRdhODd3e0FGtZISO5fef_2W_IWdWo8/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aK_5jqKqxqaufRdhODd3e0FGtZISO5fef_2W_IWdWo8/edit?usp=sharing)
* Gatherings: I share music at the beginning 

#### Questions
* Where are you most likely to cut in the lesson?
* What part of the Instructor Training are you never going to cut?
* How do Trainers work on preparing to teach together?
* How do you respond to daily feedback from Trainees?
* How do you ensure everyone is engaged throughout the training, especially because not everyone likes to speak up?
* What is your strategy for when things go wrong?
* Anecdotes and personal stories you include in your training?
* How to promote centrally organized workshops?

#### Discussion
* What are you most likely to cut and what do you never cut?
* Sarah B: Controversial - I try not to cut the workshop website. For the people who are most nervous about it, doing it by themselves is going to make it much worse. They get to pratice it with support. 
* Danielle: It is very helpful, from my perspective as workshop admin, to go over this. 
* Mateusz: Participants are learning so much from each other, that we don't want to miss that. I wouldn't cut parts where they discuss and learn from each other. 
* Kari: I don't cut working what your team and code of conduct violations. I like to do scenario exercises.
* Sher!: I would never cut how we operate. There are certain things we need them to do: like fill out the application. I tend to cut the section on grit. I sometimes merge the introduction section and doing your first teaching demo so we get both of those at the same time. 
* Sarah B: I feel least equipped to help them with the application and so I do tend to skip it. I don't know how to help them. 
* Sarah S: Maybe we should add things about AMY and how people sign up to teach in the curriculum. 
* Sarah B: There are some changes already about that, but they probably need more work. 
* How do you respond to daily feedback from trainees? 
* Sarah B: Co trainers come back from lunch a bit early and go in a breakout room. We summarise feedbacka dn decide which points are things we should acknowledge and which are things we should do differently. Whoever is teaching after will go through the feedback and say that we will change or acknowledge  ]
* Sarah S: I write notes at the top of the etherpad 
* Mike: We show people the feedback and talk through how to respond to it since they will need to do the same thing when they are teaching. 
* Sarah B: I worry that if someone deannonymizes themselves or their is feebdack about someone else. 
* Mike: We pre-screen first. 
* Sarah S: Do you tell them you are going to do that beforehand? 
* Mike: The first time we paraphrased. 
* Maneesha: I share aggregated/deidentified feedback
* Mark: We start off with 15 minutes to go over it. I try to look into the handbook to see if there is a section that will answer those questions. That way it promotes the handbook for them. 
* Sarah B: If there is stuff that will be addressed later, we tell them where we will be addressing it. It addresses their feedback, but doesnt spend time going over things out of order or multiple times. 
* How do you make sure everyone is engaged?
* Kari: This makes me wonder what everyone's definiton of engaged is. Do I assume engaging means the same way I would engage?
* Sarah B: If I have the option to write things, I will. So I look down the list and ask myself if I have a semblance of what the person is like. If I realize I don't know anything about that person, then maybe they aren't as engaged. 
* Sarah S: I used to have a list of everyone's names and make a mark when they spoke so I kept it even. I don't love being called on so I have scaled that back. I have noticed the size of the workshop makes a big difference. In larger groups, I accept that not everyone will speak. I always give them a space to write in the etherpad
* Mark: Thats what I do too. I cut and paste the list of attendees names to add into the etherpad. If they never respond, I may reach out privately on zoom.
**Anecdotes and personal stories you include in your training?**
*  Check that you are sharing in Zoom. I taught for nearly an hour and nobody called me on not haveing shared my screen. I felt really silly 
* Live coding is hard and small mistakes can be hard to see. When I taught my very first workshop (n.b. non-carpentries) with my advisor, the very first thing he did was type in the name of the R package we were teaching, called "poppr". He typed "poopr" and wondered aloud for about 30 seconds why he was getting an error. We used this as an example of how spelling and case matters with code.
* After the first teaching practice, many trainees often note feeling bad about using "just" or sometimes I catch myself and share the following: this is a sort of disciplinary habit, I becamse a trainer while I was a postdoc in an Applied Math department  and in Data Science and I noticed every time I went to a talk, I found myself subconsiosly counting "justs" the mathematicians used it about 3x as much as others; even the ones who were careful and not actually skipping steps, kept saying it.  It's a product of the environment you were trained in often, and you should not feel bad about it while you work to improve your language
**What do you cut or don't cut? (Etherpad answers)**



* Sarah S. (okay maybe i was just me who had a long answer to this and we didn't need etherpad exercise...)
* What do you cut? Preparing to teach, The Workshop website creation exercise - I do it as an after workshop session - polling for a time that works for all interested, the exercise where they think about what makes a good intro (instead I give advice) and then I still have them do the practice their intro exercise, also sometimes cut the landing exercise and give advice if for time, Think I might also cut down working with your team when needed but been a while since I've taught that section
* What do you absolutely not cut? Or want to spend more time with. - Intros, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility, Motivation/demotivation, how to give feedback, live coding practice, checkout, carpentries, putting it all together & wrap-up (like to leave a lot of time)
* Common alteration: I usually have them to do practice feedback exercise on a random topic of interest - instead of the section they will live code later, they seem to like that and the topics are all pretty interesting

Show and Tell (Aleks Nenadic)

- write down a list of participants names in alphabetical order in a separate document and paste after every exercise to give everyone a natural place to start typing their answers or thoughts (learned this tip from Sarah Stevens :heart:)

- reorder the list above in reverse alphabetical order during training to mix it up a bit



1. Sarah B: I randomly shuffle the names

- try to remember everyone's name by the end of training (for in person workshops in particular where there are no name prompts)

- make sure everyone got a chance to speak, not just the more vocal ones, try to call everyone to say something (learned this from Greg Wilson, who was also trying to call one male then one female participant to speak)

## Trainer Meeting 3 November 2022, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221103T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221103T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Karen Word (post) 
* Mike Henry he/him (post), MSKCC, (located in mesa az)

**Others attending**



* Jon Wheeler (he/him), UNM
* Tim Dennis (he/him), UCLA
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his), The Carpentries
* Matthias Liffers (he/him), Australian Research Data Commons
* Ariel Deardorff, she/her, UC San Francisco
* Mark Crowe, he/him, QCIF
* Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona 
* Liz Stokes (she/they) ARDC Sydney 
* Sara King (she/her) AARNet

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



### Introductions (Teaching tip or Question for discussion)
* Karen: using ether pad with screen sharing. Maybe the right way to do it is to share unitl people orient and then stop
* also uses the 2 etherpad route (one for template, one for pasting)
* Jon: often trying to figure out how best to present content. Lots of info, don't want to read it but don't want to get thoughts jumbled. Started using side copy of Etherpad template to take extensive notes, massive outline that I try not to return to, just building my mental model
* Mike: tip = glass of water or two! 
* Tim: question, expecting to have to shift back to 2 days from 4 days. Tips for toggling back and forth. heuristics for reshaping content to fit
* Zhian: What do you do when something goes wrong e.g. co-Instructor pulled out at the last minute or you are pulled out... what do you do? Favorite failure recovery?
* Matthias: what's the best way to quickly catch up when I haven't taught for a year and learn about the workbench
* Ariel: question for general teaching, class is not very collegial, people keep cameras off, at Carpentries trainings people always get more engaged but how do you get to that and is it always possible or always a goal?
* Jeff: automation! Teaching demo emails can be automated. Generates text, puts in snippet for lesson they have to teach, don't have to retype [https://github.com/jcoliver/auto-demo-email](https://github.com/jcoliver/auto-demo-email)
* Liz: answering Zhian's question, as somoene who pulled out, the answer is scheduling 3 people. ANother tip: never tried in Instructor Training but getting people to focus on a big out of the ordinary thing is running a very short 5 minute guided meditation. Sounds woo and you may not expect it but it helps people to show up and create space where people are prepared, calm down, get out of their head, and they can hopefully be a littlemore present to the group endeavor.
* Mark: general teaching tip, very detailed pre-workshop information email. Goes through absolutely everything, connection, installation, etc backed up with when workshop starts having 15 minute housekeeping introduction. Saves time trying to sort out minor issues that otherwise crop up. Even though not everyone reads the whole email.
* Sara: just taught in person for first time in a long time. Letting go, not having to hold the room so hard, let people help each other and wander around. Acknowledge how hard online teaching is and how much easier it is in person!
* How to set expectations re: content/teaching learning
* Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Karen and Mike - post training
* 4 half days and the beginning feels realyl cushy and by the thiurda days omg feel like we've been teaching this for ever!. We forgot about the formative assessment section - don't skip that section! Skipped most of preparing to teach, using Sarah's rationale, 
* Mike - went well - learner had imposter syndrome - emailed after the first day felt too inexterienced to teachg. We talked them down from that edge, and in the end they found the experience valuable. Common for learners to feel outmatched by their peers, when surrounded by peopl who have been programming for a decade. 
* Also - grumpiness of people for us not teaching how to teach a particular lesson - eg the python lesson. Perhaps could do a better intro to mange expectations. 
* One person gave us not-great feedback and we didn't really know what was going on with them. A couple of people I had my eye on, mixing them in and keeping them in the conversaiont, and the feedback from others I realised that I hadn't been paying attention to everyone, and the quiet voices apparently noticed.
*  Q breaks - 15 mins each day, and bonus 5 min break for any long blocks. Increased more breaks on feedback.  
* Q prompted from Karen - clear analogies to a regular carpentries workshop. How do you do that? are there strategies for making sure the majority of folks stay engaged?
* Sarah - discussed this - L118 actually - one things I do is scan the attendance checklist and ask do i feel like I know this person, or know what's going on for them, so I go and look at their responses in the etherpad. If that's enough then I don't intervene. If someone's not really replying i'l try replying and ask a follow up question in the etherpad, or call them out and ask a question, or pair them with another learner to draw them out a little more. 
* Sara - sensitive person's answer to this question - the first interaction you have with everyone is really important. the more kind and slow you are with the introduction the better your reach everyone. If you're not there saying I've got it all figuresd out - none of us have really got it all nailed, this can help relieve learners who are thinking 'i don't think I can actually do it' - maybe this can help.
* Jon - looking at whatDr j...sometimes when I'm not feeling it when someone tries to make me more engaged i feel more inclined to be disengaged. Paying attention to what's happening to in the breakouts. this is where the breakout colour coding helps you keep onto of engagement across the class. I try to be thoughtful about this.
* Sarah - Ariel's comment in the chat "I take the list and cross off folks as they talk. My goal is to cross off everyone at the end of the day. If they don’t talk on their own I ask them to speak to one of their answers"
* Ariel - it's also good for checking name pronunciation.

### Announcements
* Quarterly scheduling
* 11 November deadline
* poll for trainings: [https://forms.gle/W8ggVvtF8EC5Bwx37](https://forms.gle/W8ggVvtF8EC5Bwx37)
* calendly for demos [https://calendly.com/thecarpentries](https://calendly.com/thecarpentries)
* Workbench beta phase: [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396)
* pre-beta stage 28 Nov
* beta stage 9 Jan
* No important changes between pre-beta and beta
* Feedback: [https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/KRBl4IZM](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/KRBl4IZM)
* Most important thing for Trainers to know: when we switch to workbench, we cannot have any open PRs. Small PRs are fine, but bigger changes should be issues from now until January 9
* Quick update on Checkout Project 
* A ton of feedback! Wow! Can't give you much more detail we're still figuring out some of those finer details. Taking it to Trainer Leadership group.

### Topic of the month: Trainers Show and Tell
* What do you do when something goes wrong e.g. co-Instructor pulled out at the last minute or you are pulled out... what do you do? Favorite failure recovery?
* Sarah B: Heard that a hurricane was coming! Messaged core team to let them know. Someone was ready and available even though we didn't need them,
* Karen - helpful to have core team back up , but for timezones where core team can't jump in, good to have 3 people scheduled.   
* Ariel: for local events, things can be rescheduled if a lot of people are affected
* Liz: Dealing with trainees who really want to be there but signed up for a ridiculous time zone - 10[PM] to 2AM despite guidance, or sign up and get sick. How to get them to understand that ability to participate is harmed.
* Mike: what does the waitlist look like? Sometimes people have a fear that this is their one shot. One way to help is to have a realistic expectation
* Mike - what does a new show looks like - having waitlist people join on email and wait for us to admit them? What if the now show turns up 30 mins late?
* Jeff - setting up yourself for success - having a back channel on slack or phone messages so that if zoom goes down you have a back up.
* Sara - Important thing is to not panic.
* Karen - what is it that you're panicking about? Is it stepping in to teach at the last minute, or something specific?
* Matthias - personally I'm good at going with the flow, but borrowing from the corporate world, a risk management plan could help - looking at severity and probability so you can gauge your contingencies. 
* question, expecting to have to shift back to 2 days from 4 days. Tips for toggling back and forth. heuristics for reshaping content to fit
* MArk - why would move back to 2 days?
* Sarah - core team has been scheduling for both - personally I can get two days off, but I can't teach across 4 days.
* Ariel - depends on whayt you can shcedule. 4days trainers swap every 2 hours, 2 days trainers swap half days, which is a lot more exhausting. So swap as often as you want! Take care of your voice and your energy
* Sarah - 90 mins easy, 3 hours is really hard. 
* Jon - self care aspect of pacing . on the longer days, want to gauge the engagement of the learners, and planning so that you can do more breakouts throughout the schedule. Looking at how can you build a more restful experience for the instructors. 
* How would you prepare to teach if you haven't done it for a while?
* Mike - reading through teh whole curriculum
* Matthias - from chat - My plan is to look at the curriculum and be prepared to be gently corrected by my co-Trainer if I tell any furphies.
* Sara - also want to normalise the full panic meltdown - relying on co-instructor to help me, and regular chatch ups before the workshop. Choose the thing you were more comfortable, making sure you have the support of your coinstructor.
* Sarah - workbench transition will change the visula look and feel, but not tne major content. Eventually we will be adding tips. 
* Karen - this has bearing on how you teach - balance how you riff on reading the curriculum or get people to do the activities. Lots of different options for how you deliver the curriculum. Newer trainers are more likely to read the currriculum. Personally I'm more of a riffer, (sometimgs i skip things - but the outline notes help that!) It's not a crime to lean on teh lesson materials at times if you need to. 
