# Trainer meeting, December 5, 2019 UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191205T14 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

- Karen  
   
**Others attending**

- Kari L. Jordan
- Laura Acion
- Maneesha Sane
- Fotis Psomopoulos
- Christina K.

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Karen, Amy, and Rayna trained in Davis in person (n = 19), a number of participants were lost at the last minute. Karen prefers not to charge in spite of the desertation rate. It was during the weekend. A meetup after the training called Carpentry happened on Tuesday without many showing up because it was not a great idea, people too exhausted. 
- On day 2 people asked for more time to practice. May be worth discussing how to pack more practice time.
- Was helpful to have three people in the room, so that one person (Rayna) could observe day 2 and reflect on content. 
Ideas: 
- Have a video for the "wall of text" afternoon about the Carpentries. 
- How to balance what people *need* to know versus "go look it up in the handbook"
- Christina: was the goal to get people training in workshops in the local community in Davis?
- So far the goal was to train people at Davis. 
- Building a community seemed like a good goal - talked to UFlorida people about how to do this (?)
- Some people are leaving and passing on leadership is needed, thus a strong local community is necessary (e.g. support the local instructors, instructor training+ (?))
- Fotis: in recent training, did timing of lunch to lunch (instead of morning - afternoon), so over three days instead of two. 
- Was done mainly to accommodate participants coming from other places
- Had the side benefit that people hung around after and were less burned out/tired
- Laura A: recently did Rstudio training, was two mornings which was easier than two whole days
- Laura A: Greg also did 5 minute breaks every 45 minutes. 
- Kari: Any notable green/red stickies?
- Red sticky: " Too much feedback was asked" by one person. People can be fatigued by asking feedback. A possible solution "you are paying us with your feedback"
- Maneesha: referring things that you got in the feedback helps, is encouraging, and shows the impact of feedback 

### Announcements
- Please visit this PR re "Expert Awareness Gap" re-phrasing & add any comments before Monday: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1064/files
- Also! Rayna added a page for learner tweets and other contributions. Check out https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1067
- January meeting will use "placeholder" date (Jan 16). 
- Trainer Community leadership planning has begun! An inaugural panel will establish an elections process within the next 3-6 months, and will begin to take on some roles as possible/practical. We have reached out to several people to ensure broad representation, but all Trainers are welcome to participate as we establish these processes. If you want to be involved, contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org).
- Karen will poll an organizational meeting soon to know more about this
- Topic of the month: Instructor Trainer Application Review
- Motivation: want to have a more documented process that (eventually) could be shared with the community, reproduce why people were accepted or not
- Proposed scoring: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CVeFrv4UcwM5VtokYj6njHb9Vm-HzZSERONDrPC3388/edit?usp=sharing
- Christina: concern with weighting certain questions (like Carpentries experience), and even teaching experience -- how much do we want people to have already versus training/experience we give them?
- Karen: There's going to be separate "bins" for people who are already connected to a Carpentries community/members rather than pioneers in a new place (for example)
- Laura: similar question to Christina
- Maneesha: question about native/non-native Spanish speaker
- Does it matter how you learned Spanish? 
- Also indirectly asks about race/ethnicity, which we may not want to do? 
- How should we handle personal acquaintance in the review process?
- Laura: if you know an applicant, disclose this and be excused from evaluation; you have additional information and don't want to review a friend
- Karen: But should you be able to leave a comment / review because you know that person and provide that valuable information? 
- Fotis: How do you define "conflict of interest"? If you've specifically mentored people, then that's a good sign that they should be part of the Carpentries. 
- Laura: can't be objective about mentees - that's part of mentoring.
- Fotis: increasing number of people who want to be part of this role, growing community and inequality will eventually go away. 
- Karen: investing in mentorship should also have a reward!
- Christina: what's more equitable? Having an outside source provide extra information doesn't feel quite fair unless it's an opportunity available to all. One idea: allow people with additional information a "veto power". Another option: if there's a group of people that all "pass", send back to the mentor/membership contact to have them pick the top candidate. 
- How should we balance rubric scores with subjective evaluation?


### Gratitudes! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/carpentries-gratitudes-series/
- Karen: Christina + Rayna, for curriculum help
- Laura: Rayna, for all her support
- Fotis: thankful for Karen - always enthusiastic about trainer-related things, pushing things forward (and getting up for calls at 6am), providing support on the back end
- Christina: pioneering trainers! Like Laura and Fotis. :) <3
- Long-term survey open until 20-Dec: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/carpentrieslongtermassessment
- Check out the opportunities for in-person training events in the USA, February and March 2020.  (4 sites, many date options - read the email from Maneesha) 


# Trainer Meeting December 5, 2019 UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191205T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***

- Rayna Harris with Amy & Karen in Davis
- Amy: awesome to teach with Rayna also in addition to Karen
- Rayna advocates for 3 instructions +1
- More instructors allows for better practicing what we preach
- Having three people and Tracy stopping by helps us practice what we preach and build community better and faster
- Mark Laufersweiler  / @laufers / University of Oklahoma Libraries
- Grateful for people coming back from Instructor Training to help out. Neat to step back, then come back and see things continuing to develop and people progressing
- Arin - Recently ran 1 online 2 day. With many co-instructors
- Darya will stop by the upcoming workshop to connect to larger community, also they want to talk about upcoming ResBaz

***Others attending***   
- Arindam Basu, @arinbasu, arindam.basu@canterbury.ac.nz 
- Darya Vanichkina, @dvanichkina d.vanichkina@gmail.com University of Sydney
- Murray Cadzow
- Sarah Brown
- Amy Hodge
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Chris PU Njoku

Agenda:
Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
### Announcements
- Please visit this PR re "Expert Awareness Gap" re-phrasing & add any comments before Monday: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1064/files
gap implies missing or lack of and in relation to "expert" does it mean that experts are not aware? 
- Driving one refers to the driver's blind spot.
- 2nd def: 
- Lacking perception, awareness, or discernment. the instructor was blind to the realities of their position"
- +1 the idea is that experts can be unaware of how much they know or have forgotten what it's like to be a novice
- Doing a quick search, 606 hits for "Expert blind spot" 0 hits for "expert awareness gap" -- I'm worried that we're creating local jargon. Do we at least have a link (in text) to the bad-wrong literature in case they're interested? I think the PR addresses this pretty nicely +1+1 ... check it out and see what you think?
- The PR adds that the blind spot is the common term
- Awesome. That was my concern.
- Also! Rayna added a page for learner tweets and other contributions. Check out https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1067
- January meeting will use "placeholder" date (Jan 16). 
- Trainer Community leadership planning has begun! An inaugural panel will establish an elections process within the next 3-6 months, and will begin to take on some roles as possible/practical. We have reached out to several people to ensure broad representation, but all Trainers are welcome to participate as we establish these processes. If you want to be involved, contact Karen (krword@carpentries.org).
- More than just curriculum maintaince. Procedural things and community building needs leadership
- Long-term survey open until 20-Dec: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/carpentrieslongtermassessment
- Check out the opportunities for in-person training events in the USA, February and March 2020.  (4 sites, many date options - read the email from Maneesha) 

### Topic of the month: Instructor Trainer Application Review
- Proposed scoring: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CVeFrv4UcwM5VtokYj6njHb9Vm-HzZSERONDrPC3388/edit?usp=sharing

***How should we handle personal acquaintance in the review process?***
- How do distinguish personal aquaintance versus someone you are have advocated to be in the program? 
- Same lively discussion from this morning. People are used to conflict of interest. This is valid, but the knowledge that people have is valuable and useful. 
- When hiring, it's okay if you know them because it's almsot more concerning if you don't know them because these communities are small. What is the line? Do you know them? Have you mentored them? Have you instructed them? If people that should get through aren't then there is a problem with the rubric. Veto could be useful if they don't have the values or the experience. 
- The goal is to expand, create more opportunity for trainers, possibly not an opportunity where a mistake is high risk; better to be inclusive over exclusive. 

***What are the limiting factors?***
- Capacity, there is more interest than we have capacity
- Basic filter who "get it" to some extent, will be healthy contributors to the community in a leadership role
- Rubric is to help make sure what's fair & transparent to make the decisions we need to make based on capacity
- Need to make it clear that these aren't job descriptinos
- Communities are community from two different places. 

***How should we balance rubric scores with subjective evaluation?***
- oes the rubric reflect the goals and vision of the EC?
- Can it be a two step proces? First, who would we take if we could take everyone? Then use a second step to balance competing stages.
- Maybe use annonymous system to remove names and biases
- Can you set up a waiting list? We have been declining and asking if they want to know when the next opportunities. 
- Need to be aware that 1 new trainer isn't enough to build community. 
- Is there any input from regional coordinatores? It would be good to get their input
- Blog post about the application. 
- Bins for applicants from large, stable communities and from smaller, new communities
- Karen will follow up with email with summary and plan

### Topic of the month: Gratitudes! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/carpentries-gratitudes-series/
- Brian
- Murray: Thankful for the excellent other trainers (Arin, Jonah, Mik) in NZ and a shared goal for the national community. Also thankful for the community that stepped in and supported me at the last second to take over for my DC workshops when I had to pull out
- Rayna: Greg for brining me in and training me. Erin, Karen, and Christina for spending lots of time on curriculum maintianace. All the trainers who share their knowledge at meetings. All my co-instructors.
- Amy: Karen Word and Rayna Harris for being great co-instructors at instructor training; everyone who spends time maintainin the curriculum or making suggestions and submitting issues instead of just saying "wouldn't it be nice/better/awesome if the curriculum was like this?" Karen Word for coming to train with me at Stanford SO many times! 
- Mark
- Apreciate the senior instructors, mentors, maintainers,staff, etc who allow for growth, new ideas, and a pathway for change. They are open to new ideas, new stratigies and are not quick to shut down those ideas. It can be very easy to say that is "The way we do it" and not be open. That openness makes it a welcoming environment for new people to get engaged. 
- Darya
- Belinda Weaver, Brian Ballsun-Stanton, Paula Martinez for serving as hubs of the Australian community, and sounding boards for debriefing and training ideas
- Greg for his mentorship early on to me as an instructor
- The ARDC people (Tom, Matthias, Liz, and many, many others), for supporting the Carpentries down under nationally
- Damien Irving for being our representative. Able to set up pages and accomodate random requests for surveys/stuff at odd hours and short notice
- All of the trainers, librarians, support staff and learners who have made our training (at both Carpentries events and as part of ResBazes) possible and incredibly rewarding
- Sarah: Danielle & Amy who were my co-instructors for my first two training events. Anelda & Allegra for encouraging me to apply to become a trainer. Brian for our extra trainer training discussion session on the week it was cancelled. 
- Karen: This morning I thanked Christina and Rayna, so this afternoon I am going to express gratitude to the Australian Trainer community for coming together and helping steer us towards stronger regional inclusivity, particularly Brian and Darya but also Benjamin and so many others. It is wonderful to see that community coming together
- Chris 
- Arindam
- I am thankful to so many people in the instructor trainer community, so The Carpentries above all to start with, then all our trainers in NZ, @Murray, @Jonah, all my instructor training group (@Sarah Stevens, @Marco, @Serah, @C Tobin Magie; recently @Kari, @Erin, @Paula, @Eric, @Sher! .... this keeps expanding exponentially. Deeply grateful to you all! What a team we are!


# Trainer meeting, November 7, 2019  UTC 14:00 (Karen)
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191107T14 

***Training discussion (pre and post):***

- Aleks Nenadic (I am away on business and have meetings all day but if possible will try to join), https://gcapes.github.io/2019-10-08-ttt-manchester/, https://arctraining.github.io/2019-09-25-ttt-leeds 
- Blooms is hard to cover when you're short on time. 'use it or lose it'
- GitHub exercise is at the end of day 2 and if you're behind you have to cut it. Also people are pretty tired, and if you're not proficient with GitHub it can be a bit of a burden. 
- People unfamiliar with the community in particular can be blindsided by this whole GitHub thing.
- Should we keep the name live coding for people using the OpenRefine lesson e.g.?

- Kari L. Jordan & Sher! https://sheraaronhurt.github.io/2019-10-09-ttt-uga/   
- Slides (Morning) https://drive.google.com/open?id=1C0MTsUk9fOzfgD5p0bfScNAMqm7XskyY-oThem-iFeI
- Slides (Afternoon) https://drive.google.com/open?id=1zZ0IEC4vYtennsmSGB3Bf37p4iGfWxQLrCBveo93vF4
- We shifted workshop intros ahead on the second day so that they could include their workshop intro in their live coding demo when they did it the second/third time around. Worked well! Added more time to the teaching demos (which helped this section to work better too). Started the timer after they did their intro.
- A comment about someone having anxiety after the exercise on testing your working memory.
- Scenarios for Code of Conduct violations: groups talked through scenarios and potential actions as instructor or workshop host. People seemed to feel more empowered and know what to do when dealing with incidents.
- Nobody said they didn't understand mental models! Not sure what they did but look at the slides

- Karen (& Nico & Rayna) https://npalopoli.github.io/2019-10-28-ttt-lima/
- Sher! Columbia

***Others attending***   
- Laura Acion, University of Buenos Aires, lacion@gmail.com 
- Maneesha Sane 
- Sarah Stevens
- Christina (if I can get zoom installed)
- Sher

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- It's nice when people come with their friends
- Sher can send emails for in-person events if you want -- you don't need to send your own emails for those events if you 
### Announcements
- Don't forget to fill out the Availability Form for next Quarter's Instructor Training workshops: https://forms.gle/HZFKqLQEde8qpcAk6
- CZI grant! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/czi-moore-grant/
- Christina is stepping down from curriculum/community maintenance for a while (because CarpentryCon!) We will not only be looking to replace her during her absence, but also to expand and structure governance within this community to accommodate growth. Stay tuned for more on this!
- Request for comment on encouraging / accepting contributions to non-official lessons for Instructor Training checkout: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/6 (Erin)
### Topics of the month
- New Instructor Trainer application 
- General discussion
- Rubric?
- Make your pitch!
- Trainer Training: https://carpentries.github.io/trainer-training/


# Trainer Meeting November 7, 2019 UTC 22:00 (Rayna)
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191107T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Rayna (and Karen and Niko)   https://npalopoli.github.io/2019-10-28-ttt-lima/
- Darya (pre Monash) and Paula

***Others attending***   
- Murray Cadzow
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Darya
- Sarah Brown
- Amy Hodge
- Elizabeth Williams

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Rayna, Karen, Niko)   https://npalopoli.github.io/2019-10-28-ttt-lima/
- slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ruVxa_qYNCfp_UbbscA2E6DY85fU2dN_pa-jCMZeb14/edit?usp=drive_web&ouid=108542948824361321088
- Instructor training 100% in spanish. Translated slides (to help overcome language barrier)
- Slides worked really well.
- Cut faded examples, but otherwise good on time. Mental model discussion effective.
- Effective demonstration of capability. Conveyed complex things in a different language.
- Prepped full translation ahead of time. Read from translation. Don't read "how we operate" -- it doesn't work
- Activities point to *many* other texts, which complicates other-language instruction.
- Problem keeping documents in sync!
- Prepping everything from scratch gave lots of perspective.
- No established norms of when translation from a co-instructor should translate.
- From Darya: Very hard to have co-instructor translate. Requires different mindset. 
- Get third person in as *pure* translator if needed.
- Too many mental mode-shifts needed.
- Darya volunteers to teach instructor training in Russian.

***Feedback:***
- Learners happy reading/listening in other languages, but unwilling to speak
- EW: Motivation stems from learners watching instructors struggle with multiple languages.
- Darya and Paula (Monash)
- Set up shared notes, etherpad, allocated roles.
- Slides as prompt for talking?
- Create cognitive framework. Prompting for discussion.
- Etherpad should work for IRL teaching well.
- AH: Talking takes a *lot more time* than online. Think-pair-share, etc, moved to discussion rather than people typing in the pad. Expectation that people sitting in room will be talking to each other rather than typing. Important balance for introverted people. 
- Darya: https://kahoot.it/ as venue for MCQs. Good icebreaker, doesn't take itself seriously
- BBS/RH: Worth revising our position on slides. Make sure we're using the tools correctly. Incoherency between what we say about slides and what practices we've grown to use.
- EW:  Using tools correctly. Maybe the response to the argument is that it is really easy to misuse slides, so in the curriculum it was decided to say no for beginning teaching. That's why you should make yourself uncomfortable every once in a while! Everything is relative.... 
- Amy and Karen
- Plans for complete coherency!
- Don't forget to fill out the Availability Form for next Quarter's Instructor Training workshops: https://forms.gle/HZFKqLQEde8qpcAk6
- What to do when you don't know your schedule? you can say that in the form
- In australia, some problems could have been solved if they had waited to pick dates. would be beneficial to coordinate locally between instructors to minimize travel. the quarter system doesn't work, better to plan on a yearly basis
- Would be good to have call with Australia and New Zealand to discuss needs and challnges and coordinations
- New zealand has more instructors than demand for workshops currently
- Relates to reinvisioning membership and instructor training program. Good idea to explore a regional corrdination model +100
- CZI grant! https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/11/czi-moore-grant/
- Lots of money, in particular towards instructor training
- Christina is stepping down from curriculum/community maintenance for a while (because CarpentryCon!) We will not only be looking to replace her during her absence, but also to expand and structure governance within this community to accommodate growth. Stay tuned for more on this!
- Request for comment on encouraging / accepting contributions to non-official lessons for Instructor Training checkout: https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-RFCs/issues/6 (Erin)

### Topics of the month
- New Instructor Trainer application
- Goal: create a rubric that will help increase transparency
- Make your pitch!
- Optional references is tricky. Need to balance fairness and equity with allowing communties to have a say.
- A form might be okay? would provide a mechanisms for getting the information you need without writing a letter. Maybe have a supplementary section where people can list local communiites
- e.g. ratings on specific criteria and a short Q&A
- (one diversity scholarship I supported a student for asked how isolated the student was)
- Checking references is time-consuming. 
- What problem are we trying to solve? - need community review
- Trainer Training: https://carpentries.github.io/trainer-training/


# Trainer meeting, October 3, 2019  UTC 14:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191003T14  

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Christina Koch ( https://mikemhenry.github.io/2019-09-05-ttt-online-PDT/ )
- Kari & Sher (https://sheraaronhurt.github.io/2019-10-09-ttt-uga/)     
Sample slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C0MTsUk9fOzfgD5p0bfScNAMqm7XskyY-oThem-iFeI/edit#slide=id.g59c028797c_0_93 

***Others attending***
- Karen Word
- Kari L. Jordan 
- Angela Li  
- Katrin Leinweber
- Sarah Stevens
- FranÃ§ois Michonneau
- Anne Fouilloux
- Sher!

Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topic of the month: How can we better support our Maintainer community?
***What are the problems that maintainers have with the way that newcomers interact with their curriculum?*** 
- Trainees don't know what happens after they make a lesson contribution as part of checkout. When they're doing it they don't know what to expect, sometimes there isn't any follow up and they are wondering what's going to happen +1 +1
- There might be confusion around release shedules or how often lessons are updated. Different per lesson? In general -- how often do maintainers go in and look at PRs and do releases for the lessons?
- There's the maintainer side -- maintaining a lesson is hard. There's lots of input coming in small big, hard to triage and determine when you should act. It's not clear what the goal is -- is it to improve the curriculum or show that you've read it? In the past we've talked about our goal being just familiarizing people with our process... what *is* the goal? Is there a different way... people's bios used to get added through a github PR. Should we have a more specific exercise?
- Not everyone submits via github. Maybe 1-2 per week submit via email. 
***What is it like from the maintainer's perspective?***
- R inflammation is old, so we don't get too many. If they don't follow the rules
- Are contribution guidelines the same for all lessons?
- Did tweak them for R inflammation, so they diverge a little bit.
As a new maintainer:
- One person recently posted a "we should expand this to include ALL THE THINGS" and sort of assumed this person was checking out. Had to say thanks but decline. Can't tell how invested they are in their opinion because is it just checking a box or something they were really motivated to submit. PRs are *most* useful after someone has taught the lesson.  This is also perspective from a beta-ish lesson. 
Also have labeled things as "good first issues" but people don't seem to be finding them. Maybe they don't feel comfortable with GitHub (particularly common in Social Sci). People still feel really intimidated. Or maybe GitHub doesn't have to be part of the checkout. 
- Since checkout has changed we have had fewer pull requests
- What do people think about the newer GitHub feature -- you still can't label your issues but they changed the issue template, so we could create a checkout template. *This* could have a label attached to it. Question then becomes what should other options be? +1
- The template may also allow automatic tracking and trainees may not need to e-mail
- Maybe we could also have a template for asking questions about how to contribute?
1) Pick a repository. 2) Read through the issues. Do you notice any themes, labels, etc. 3) Read through the lesson --- could we create a worksheet for contributions? Step by step? We moved to issues because people
- Have we ever rejected a contribution for checkout? No. On staff side we accept everything -- as long as they submitted something. Who would be responsible for deciding if something is sufficient? Should we have criteria?
- Most contributions do have substance.
- On newer lessons we know that certain things need work. We may intetionally leave things open. Having guest maintainers come in for Instructor Training when they want help? 
- Community discussion? How lessons and contributions work hosted by a group of maintainers. Stay and make a contribution! Would be great. Combine with bug bbq for a particular repo?
- Video for people interested in contributing to a particular repository?
- Having the opportunity to *meet* the contributors would be valuable for the maintainers 
- Meetings and social engagements like these could also contribute towards keeping maintainers engaged

***How can we better train instructors to interact with the curriculum in a way that is helpful to maintainers?***
- E.g. refer to & use external resources more often, rathen than incorporating a rephrased version into our lessons (more content to maintain). E.g. https://github.com/swcarpentry/git-novice/pull/682
- Instructor training could use more instructions on using exteral resources. For some sections it's valuable, in other cases we could simply trust other communities to improve material that we only refer to. If they are more official or simply larger? This would reduce our maintenance load. Can we ask them to consider whether content already exists? It's clear for everyone that lessons are growing. It would be helpful to instill a mindset that considers slashing content that is borrowed from elsewhere. +1
- Lessons are far too long. _Working on the objectives_ could be useful -- often content ends up deviating +1
- Different mindsets for maintainer groups are fine, but instructor training could use some shared, common denominators +1

***How can we improve the lesson content around checkout to make this process easier on maintainers?***
***How can we better prepare (or persuade!) new instructors to be maintainers?***

***How can we help onboard new maintainers so they feel they're contributing to the lesson they're maintaining?***
See Maintainer Onboarding (not actively being used): https://carpentries.github.io/maintainer-onboarding/ and https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/maintainers/maintainers.html#maintainer-onboarding
Should we discourage contributions to certain established lessons? Should we actively point people at certain repositories that want attention?
PR to consider: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1035
Carpentries Conversations repo: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations
The instructor development committee is thinking of doing a project where they encourage contributions to instructor notes. Do maintainers need to approve changes to instructor notes? Do they care (for lack of a better word) about instructor notes? +1 +1

### Announcements & Business
- Carpentries Values contributions invited through Friday
- Want to be a virtual co-trainer in Peru? 
- Demos signup went great -- now we need to do it again! This time will run through *March* to get back in sync with workshop signup. Don't know your 2020 schedule yet? We'll send reminders in January.
- Updates coming soon to Instructor Trainer applications. Early opinions welcome, and keep an eye out for this later in the month if you'd like to review.
- Scheduling 2020 Q1 online events - announcement coming in late October 

### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Taught with Mike Henry at his first workshop! Went really well. Some comments: wasn't sure what to do about Mindset. Spent a lot longer on Motivation/demotivation. Reordered and it went ok?  Shortened mmindset and focused on behaviors that growth mindset encourages. Willingness to make mistakes seems to be pretty consistent and correlated with learning. Comment: should either not teacch or teach as written so mixed results there. Good remidner that having been in the Carpentries for a long time, Zoom and Etherpad are normal, but taking time to let people practice flipping between the two is valuable. Definitely have an expert blind spot there now. Walking people through is valuable. 
- Liked how Mike talked about CoC. "A contract that we've agreed to so that we all can learn."
- One more change -- concept maps and faded examples... talked about limiting concepts or scaffolding. Concepts are one way to limit the concepts, and faded examples are a way to scaffold. No strong response + or 1. 
- We had someone who really dominated the conversation. Feedback on both days. Kept a list on the second day... wasn't sure what else to do about it. Didn't communicate with Mike about calling on people that hadn't been heard from. Wasn't sure how to say "thanks but 


# Trainer Meeting October 3, 2019, 2019 UTC 22:00 
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20191003T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***
- Sarah Brown (post: https://brownsarahm.github.io/2019-09-10-ttt-cmu/ ) 
- Eric Jankowski (post: https://erjank.github.io/2019-09-19-ttt-boisestate/)

***Others attending***   
- Rayna Harris 
- Darya Vanichkina 
- Murray Cadzow
- Peter Hoyt (might not make this one but will try)
- Elizabeth Williams
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Erin Becker
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton 
 
Agenda:
### Introductions
### Topic of the month: How can we better support our Maintainer community?
####Debrief from this morning
- Has been discussed among maintainers: Making "to-do" lists for curricula, opening up "comments" as a mode of contribution
- Making things easier for maintainers: Could have "checkout friendly" tag. Asking people to make lists is work, putting things somewhere besides repo is maintenance. Tag could be used to auto-populate this list.
- At the moment we're requiring existing lesson contribution but what about the incubator? Novice instructors could really make a difference there. Maybe not all of them maybe just a few of them, focus on telling people how to contribute, outline needs etc. Might make it both safe for existing curriculum maintainers and get some of this new curriculum up and running faster.
- Would this increase the maintenance load for incubator lessons?
- Main takeaway from last in-person training was that it took way way too long to get people comfortable with what a "significant" contribution is. Could we get some examples? Links to examples of good contributions. [Note: contributions are not rejected, but we clearly aren't consistent in our messaging on this]
- If we had labeling maybe they wouldn't have to send emails to checkout? Could that automation save any effort?
- Mentoring cycle didn't work as well as previous cycles. Wonder if using mentoring framework -- offering option at end of instructor training to mentor people through the contribution process. Might quell concerns that they need to understand every detail about what they are about to do and broaden the community contributing. Being mentored by a maintainer might give people confidence that they could become maintainers, also.
- We could create screenshots of great examples also and include those in the curriculum
- Challenge, even when labeled "good first issue" not always seen
- Could we generate a set of links to the search results for "good first issues" instead of linking to the pages of the lessons - I just submitted this PR! :-D (for python-gapminder)
- Are checkout emails a significant staff burden? It's not a problem. Historically, Greg would subscribe to every repository and find every new ontribution and see if that person had recently been trained! We changed the process -- we can catch contributions in two ways .1 is AMY profile log and the other is they can email checkout@carpentries.org. Template response, add to AMY, sometimes this draws out questions. 
***What can we do about maintainers feeling unprepared to answer checkout questions?***
- Would it make sense to have a liaison who could be tagged or brought in on these sorts of things? 
- We could have a team in this role if the burden is too much for one person. People that get added to that team could be rotating Trainers. Challenge would be consistency, and help might be needed, but could be a good experience for Trainers and cultivate community.
- Short cycles with overlap generally are good to prevent burnout. 
- Could possibly substitute for demos or other requirements?

***What are the problems that maintainers have with the way that newcomers interact with their curriculum?***
- How can we better train instructors to interact with the curriculum in a way that is helpful to maintainers?
- How can we improve the lesson content around checkout to make this process easier on maintainers?
- How can we better prepare (or persuade!) new instructors to be maintainers?
- How can we help onboard new maintainers so they feel they're contributing to the lesson they're maintaining?
- Should we discourage contributions to certain established lessons? Should we actively point people at certain repositories that want attention?
- PR to consider: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1035
- Carpentries Conversations repo: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations

### Pre and post workshop discussion
- In person workshop, stayed mostly on time, with the exception of checkout. Skipped some challenges because the discussion happened anyways. Wanted references for concept maps and couldn't find anything. Very appreciative of discussing how to build local community
- Check with Arindam Basu for some suggestions
- Internal workshop as part of platinum partnership. Goal, will standardizing tutorials be better if all are made by carpentries certified instructors? Online training with learners from multiple sites. Last minute changes to attendee list was frustrating. Learners didn't understand why have workshops if tutorials are online and they wanted a path through the pedagody and a path for working through it. 
- Examples in r gapminder: https://swcarpentry.github.io/r-novice-gapminder/guide/
- Make sure you emphasize how valuable the instructor for guided learning. 
- Lessons are a script. You can read hamlet or you can go watch it live and its a different, immersive experience and every play with different people who bring their individuality.
- Maybe add this to the "manging expectaions" section
- Students really appreciate the notes and having the instructor guide them. Need to have an agreement between co-instructors where to cut. Can help with fear of missing out as well
- Building a community of practice can help with encouraging people to interact with the curriculum after the workshop. Hacky Hour in Australia

### Announcements & Business
- Carpentries Values contributions invited through Friday
- Want to be a virtual co-trainer in Peru? if so, email Karen
- Demos signup went great -- now we need to do it again! This time will run through *March* to get back in sync with workshop signup. Don't know your 2020 schedule yet? We'll send reminders in January.
- Updates coming soon to Instructor Trainer applications. Early opinions welcome, and keep an eye out for this later in the month if you'd like to review.
- Scheduling 2020 Q1 online events - announcement coming in late October 
- Brian made a thing: https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/etherpad/index.html (Is it worth making this a blog post on its own, or should we wait until I get the general version ready for all lessons?)
- Make blog post with call to action for feedback before getting it ready for all lessons, because it is great (also I said it was great on the lesson-infrastructure committee meeting in August (Sarah)
- THING IS GREAT - PAULA AND I WILL USE IT FOR MONASH AND GIVE FEEDBACK (Darya)

### General comments/suggestions from maintainers: 
- The PR requirement for checkout creates a lot of "suggestions" and extra traffic on certain repos that have to be dealt with by maintainers - sometimes these are not informed by having taught the lesson, but by what "I personally think would be useful". I'm wondering if we could switch the order of the PR requirement, or make it something that you do after teaching a section of a workshop? Alternatively, we could offer "multiple paths" to checkout -- either you teach a workshop, assist in organizing a workshop, submit a PR, or do something else. Instructors may be in very different contexts, and different things may make sense for different instructor checkouts? (I understand if this could be confusing.)
- I've labeled several issues on my repo as "good first issues", but it doesn't seem like individuals are being led to find them. Can these be surfaced to new contributors more readily? 
- Part of the issue may be that people feel uncomfortable with submitting a PR/working with Github, in which case should there be informal training on these topics for instructors? Or even a community call going over how to submit a PR to a lesson repo. I think that would be a great use of a community call, or a mentorship situation.
- We could highlight https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#opening-a-pull-request or the CONTRIBUTING.md files in each repo more
- If people are being told to fix formatting on lessons, could we provide them a link to the Carpentries Style Guide, or know confirm what type of spelling/capitalization we want in lessons? https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/resources/style-guide.html I have received 1-2 formatting "fixes" that go against this.
- How about asking people to shorten a particularly long sentence by rephrasing? Adhering to https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-02918-5 > "Minimize clauses, compound sentences and transition words " for example.
- I don't mind receiving new issues / PRs as part of checkout, but I'd like them to be clearly marked as such. There was a new issue where I had to address checkout concerns and I'm not involved in that, so I found it extra work to go and look this up. Provide people doing this as checkout a clear instruction that maintainers are not involved in the checkout process and cannot answer their questions?

***Specific problems that maintainers have with the way that newcomers interact with their curriculum?***
  
Suggested solutions that could be implemented via Instructor Training
- Can maintainers identify example PRs that were a good checkout contribution to help make "significant contribution" more clear?
- Does it need to be a significant contribution though?
- https://github.com/search?q=org%3Acarpentries+org%3Adatacarpentry+org%3Aswcarpentry+org%3ALibraryCarpentry+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22+is%3Apr&type=Issues might work & incentivise maintainers to tag such PRs with "good first issue". It would not interfere with the "need help" link on the ord page, because that targets issues only
- Template checkout for PR and issues to guide contributions
- Maintainers who want attention, coud do outreach, e.g. community discussion or onboarding meetings, building relationships
- Create and maintain an up to date to-do list for lessons on the carpentries website. 
- Be more insistant that it doesn't have to be a pr but could be a comment.
- Add a checkout friendly tag that could be used to create a "development dashboard"
- Include a statment that contributions can be made to the incubator. see also https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1035
- Have a "team" on github that deals with checkout/training/maintance. Either the trainer maintainers and or a new group. They could work on a cycle to build community. could be an alternative assignment to demos or mentoring. having term limits would be great
